ICE CREAM CONE MAKING

Ice Cream Cone Making Business Guide for Beginners

Do you want to start an ice cream cone making business? Are you searching for a detailed ice cream cone making business plan sample? 
Find here a detailed guide on how to start an ice cream cone making business with small capital investment.


 
Any individual can initiate ice cream cone making business as a home based and small scale basis. Ice cream cones of many varieties 
flavours and in different forms are served round the year and demand is going up year after year. The most popular mode of serving is in cones as 
it is neat & clean, easy to store and there is no disposal need. With the continuous increase in the sale of ice-creams, demand for cones is increasing. 
It is a consumer durable item.

Ice cream cones generally come with different colours and flavours. Ice cream cones are not only convenient but there is no residual waste as well. 
Manufacturing process is simple and simple machinery is involved in manufacturing. An entrepreneur with a proper planning can initiate this business with low 
startup capital investment.

Ice Cream Cone Market

Consumption of ice-cream has been increasing steadily over the years. With changing lifestyles and food habits, this trend would continue even in future. In addition, ice cream is getting tremendous popularity as the dessert. And the young population including the students prefer to have ice cream in cones rather than in a bowl.

A majority of the consumers prefer ice cream in cups or cones. Serving in paper cups requires a spoon to eat and disposal is a problem. But in the case of cones, there is no need to have a spoon and they are eaten along with the ice-cream. Therefore, starting an ice cream cone making business is a lucrative venture for the small entrepreneurs.

 
Ice Cream Cone Making Business Registration

In starting ice cream cone making business you will need to register your firm first. Register your business with ROC (Register Of Companies). Obtain Trade License and Pan Card. As ice cream cone is a food item you will need to have a license from Food Safety and Standard Authority of India (FSSAI). Register your business as SSI Unit. Obtain Vat Registration. You may also register your product brand name as Trade Mark.

Raw Material For Ice Cream Cone Making

The major raw materials are wheat and corn flour. Apart from these food colours and flavours are required. Additionally, you can procure these raw materials 
from the local wholesale market. You will need to have some packaging materials also. Generally, moisture proof packaging is recommended for ice cream cone packaging.

Ice Cream Cone Making Machine
Ice Cream Cone MakingAutomatic ice cream cone making machines are available in the market with varying capacities. However, you need to decide the capacity according 
to the size of the market and required production output. A machine with the capacity to produce 48,000 cones per shift of 8 hours or 144.00 lac cones per year considering 
300 working days would cost Rs.2.00 lacs. These machines offer finished cones. First, it dispenses batter on the baking plates to prepare the wafer for shaping, then rolls them up, 
keep them in shape unload them finally. It is the main device of the production line.

Ice Cream Cone Making Process

First of all, you have to mix the corn and wheat flour with water. And then, add the required quantity of colour and flavours with the dough. 
Then feed this dough to the cone making machine. The machine makes cones as per the mould they are baked in and ready cones come out of it. 
Then you can pack 50 or 100 cones in polyethylene pouch bag for bulk selling.




