ICE CREAM MAKING

How to Start an Ice Cream Shop

Ice cream is one of the most popular treats ever. It’s little wonder that there are so many parlors and vendors, serving anything from traditional 
ice cream and frozen yogurt to frozen custards and Italian gelato. It’s a tempting business venture. Are you thinking of starting your own shop? If so, you should 
take stock and weigh your options before putting together your business plan. There are many things to consider, including market research, laws, equipment, suppliers, 
and putting together a formal business plan.

1 Researching the Business

Decide whether a small business is for you. Sure, running a small business seems like a great thing. You get to put your own ideas to work. You get to make decisions and work independently, meaning you’re the boss. And you get the satisfaction of building something lasting. But it isn’t for everyone. In fact, operating a small business will be stressful and probably more work than you imagine. Think carefully before deciding that it’s for you.[1]
Do you like challenges, for example? Do you thrive in difficult circumstances? Are you comfortable making big decisions? In that case, starting a small business may be for you.
On the other hand, are you risk averse? Do you distrust your gut instinct? Do you avoid stress and big decisions? You might want to rethink your plan, since all of these – risk, stress, 
and decision-making – are a big part of small-business ownership.

2 Decide on a business model. 

OK, you have chosen to go ahead. The next thing to do is to decide what sort of ice cream shop you want to start. You have some options. For example, do you want to buy or invest in an up-and-coming shop, start your own, or perhaps buy into a franchise? Consider, as each carries with it certain risks and certain opportunities.
Read up on the benefits of franchising your business. Working with a parent company like Cold Stone Creameries or Baskin Robbins, you’ll have help in starting up. They will guide you in décor, the materials and food ingredients used to make the products, and employee training.
Franchise costs can run high, though. The average start-up cost for a Cold Stone Creamery franchise is between $261,000 to $405,000.[2]
Starting your own shop is another choice. It may be less expensive to go it yourself – for instance, it is not uncommon to buy an existing or closed ice cream shop for $50,000 or 
less – but you will have much less support.[3] Unlike a franchisee, you will have to do everything on your own.

3 Research, research, research. 

Get as detailed an idea as you can of what your business will look like and how it will operate. Do this by studying other ice cream stores in the area, as well as frozen yogurt and gelato parlors. What do they sell? How do they market their products? How do they advertise? You will also need to do serious research into the ice cream industry.
Do market research. That is, look at your demographics, your competition, and the logistics of operating an ice cream shop. What group of customers are you targeting? Kids, maybe, or young professionals?
How much business can you expect to do in your area? How will you price the ice cream? Sales and pricing might vary for a number of reasons, including season, your location, the presence of competitors, and supply.
You will also need to find proper suppliers for your needs. Cones, napkins, toppings, and the ice cream itself will all have to be bought from wholesalers or suppliers.

4 Get fully licensed and certified. 

Your legal requirements will depend on your city or state. For example, you may need a business license. For example, in the city of Toronto you need a license either to have an eatery or a food vending truck and need to submit a background check, proof of work status, and copy of a lease agreement. You may also be asked to provide proof of insurance. The fee for such an application is about $680.
In starting an eatery, you’ll probably also have to contact your local health department, state sales tax agency, and state employment department for an employer tax ID number (if you plan to hire). Don’t forget to contact the IRS, as well, to obtain a federal tax ID number.[6]
As you can see, there is a lot of legal red tape in starting a small business. You may want to consider consulting a lawyer who specializes in business for help

5 Figure out what equipment and supplies you need – 

and how much it will cost. You will have to have all the proper equipment and supplies for your grand opening. Depending on the location or type of store, this may range from one or two sinks, a small ice cream cabinet, and dry storage to several soft-serve machines and ice-cream cabinets, computer and cooling systems, backup generators, and dry-thru windows.[7]
Don’t forget that on top of the equipment you’ll need day-to-day supplies like ice cream, cones, plastic spoons, bowls, and otherwise.

6 Set a location for your business. 

Decide on a strategic and viable location for your business. You’ll want to place it near a ready source of customers, like close to malls, parks, in the city center, or near other retail businesses. Accessibility and convenience is key. Keep in things like car and foot traffic, but also whether there are existing ice cream parlors nearby who might be stiff competition.
Your shop may be quite small or large, anywhere from 400 to 4,000 square feet. Remember that you will need space for ice cream storage in addition to retail space.

7 Write a formal business plan. 

Take what you have learned in your research and planning and, now, put it on paper. A business plan will map the financial and practical success of your shop. It can also convince a bank or investor to help finance you. Your plan should outline how much you plan to sell, projecting your sales minus your operating costs, for a number of years, usually 3 to 5.[8]
Base your data on the market research you did: the size of your local market, your competition, your pricing, your marketing and operations plans, and trends in the overall industry. Include your projected costs for supplies, lease or rental agreement, wages, business insurance, and other things.
Business plans usually follow a set format. They should begin with a short summary (called an executive summary), and then your business strategy and plans for growth, your marketing 
strategy, your operation plans, human resources plan, a financial projection, and an analysis of strengths, weaknesses, and possible threats (called a SWOT analysis).