NUT'S BOLT MAKING

How to Start Nuts Bolt Manufacturing Business?

#1 Potential of Nut Bolt Manufacturing Business (Market Opportunity)

Nut and bolts are essential items in the Manufacturing industry as well as the nut and bolts are used for domestic purpose, therefore, the demand for the nut and bolts are high in the market, so you don’t have to worry about the market potential of the fastener manufacturing business.

The demand for the nut and bolts is influenced by the following factors

Transportation industries

Electrical industries

Construction industries

Agriculture equipment

Due to use of various MS (mild steel) and HT (high tensile) fasteners in above industries, the demand for the nut and bolts is consistently in the market, therefore if you are planning to start the fastener manufacturing business then it is a profitable business option.

#2 Registrations & Licenses Required for Nut Bolt Manufacturing Business

 1) Registration of Firm: You may start the small to medium nut and bolt manufacturing business either a Proprietorship or Partnership Firm.

If you are starting this fastener business as One Person Company, then you have to register your firm as a proprietorship.

For Partnership operation, you have to register as a limited liability partnership (LLP) or Pvt. Ltd. Company with Registrar of Companies (ROC).

 2) GST Registration: GST registration will allow you to get the GST number which is mandatory for every business.

 3) Trade License: Obtain tread license from the local authorities.

 4) Pollution Certificate: nut and bolt manufacturing industry may cause the pollution; therefore, you need to get the pollution Control certificate.

 5) MSME/SSI Registration: fastener manufacturing is a mechanical based industry if you register your business with MSME/SSI Registration it will allow you for government subsidy and facilities.

 6) Trade Mark: you can secure your nut and bolt manufacturing brand with the help of the trademark registration.

#3 Area required to start Nut Bolt Making Business(Location)

While initiating any business, selecting an appropriate location and area space is an important factor which indirectly effects on the growth and success of your business.

While selecting the area location for business to ensure that the location must be accessible by the raw material supplier and targeted market also make sure that the location must have facilities like water supply, drainage facility, and electricity supply.

Nut and bolt Manufacturing Industrial can start with minimum 800 sq ft area, but it should be in the industrial area or just try to avoid the residential area because some state government doesn’t allow you to start the fastener making industry in the residential area.

Before searching for the area location for nut and bolt manufacturing business read put the rules and regulation that are mentioned by your state government. 

#4 Raw Materials for Manufacturing Nuts Bolts

The main raw material for nut manufacturing is hexagonal rods of defined size and for manufacturing of bolt major raw material is MS round apart from these you need to buy packaging materials.

The quality metal is used in order to avoid cracking therefore while purchasing the raw material make sure that raw material must be of good quality.

The Nut is generally made up of tough metal

Carbon steel

Stainless steel

Brass

Nickel alloys

Aluminum alloy

Nut and bolt which are made up of the steel metal are coated with the zinc, cadmium, nickel, or chromium for protecting purpose.

#5 List of Machinery used in Nut Bolt Manufacturing

Machinery is another important factor that effects on the production of the product and indirectly affects the success of your business

There are different types of machinery are available in the market you have to choose the right machinery according to the investment and production demand for your fastener manufacturing industry.

If you don’t know how to handle the machines then ask the machinery supplier for the onsite training.

The machinery required for the nut and bolt manufacturing business is as follow


List of machinery required for nut and bolt manufacturing business.
Double stroke solid die cold head forging machine

Head trimming machine

Thread rolling machine

Bull block wire drawing machine

Straightening machine

Power press

Planting tank

Steel polishing barrel with an electric motor

Automatic nut forming plant

Nut tapping machine

Wire pointing machine

Weighing scale

﻿Related Business Ideas:

111+ Small Scale Manufacturing Business Ideas

#6 Nuts Bolt Manufacturing Process

Step1 Cold heading

1.    Straightening of wire: Wire is fed from the mechanical coil through straightening machine

2.    Cutting of wire: The straight wire goes through the machine that cut the wire into the required size and dies cut the head of the screw into a predefined shape.


 
3.    Creating screw blank: The heading machine create screw head which consist of open or closed dies that either required one punch or two punch ( closed dies create more accurate screw bank)

The cold heading machine produces 150 to 600 screw blanks per minute

Step 2 Thread rolling

4.    Thread cutting: The screw blanks are fed into the thread cutting dies from a vibrating hopper.

The vibrating hopper guide the screw blanks down a chute to dies and make sure that the screw blank incorrect feed position

5.    Blank cutting: The screw blank is cut down using one of the following methods

 Method 1) Reciprocating die method: in this method, two dies are used to cut the screw thread, where one die is stationary and another is move In a reciprocating manner and screw blank is rolled between two dies

Method 2) center less cylindrical die method: in this method, screw blank is rolled between two to three round dies to create the threads

Method 3) planetary rotary die method: in this method, planetary rotary dies to hold the screw blank stationary and die cutting machines are rolled around the screw blank.

All of these methods produce high-quality screw.

Step 3 Packaging

6.    Once nut and bolts are produce packed them into the cartoon packed box and dispatch.

Related Business Ideas:

LED light Manufacturing Business

Candle Making Business

Agarbatti Making Business

Chalk Making Business

Aluminum Door Window Manufacturing Business

#7 Where/How to sell Nuts and Blot.

Nut and bold is the product for which you can’t use regular branding and promoting strategies.

You need to contact with the industry and retailers who will purchase your fastener and will help you to introduce your fastener brand to other clients

Local market (Retail market, Garages)
You can sell your nut and bolt product to your local retailer market.

Wholesale market for Nuts Bolts
You can sell your nut and bolt product to the wholesale market in bulb amount.