SLIPPER MAKING

 (Slipper) Making Business Plan Investment Profit

Step 1: Buy essential raw materials, install the machines and hire one or two labours to assist you for the manufacturing process. ...
Step 2: The rubber sheets are needed to be cut in shape. ...
Step 3: Drilling machines are needed to make the holes on the slippers. ...
Step 4: After this slippers are needed to be printed.

Material and Cost for Making Chappal

Two parts of materials are needed for slipper making business. One is the raw material for slippers and the other part is packaging materials. In case of slippers, rubber sheets and straps are needed. For the packaging material, there are plastic, cardboard boxes and cartoons are needed to be packed safely for the market.

These materials are easily available online. But make sure to pick up good quality products while buying these materials.

Rubber sheet for the slippers’ costs are different for different material. Generally it costs between Rs. 300/- per sheet to Rs. 450/- and more for each sheet depending on their material and quality. Straps for the slippers are also available in retail or wholesale market. The straps can be of different types. The fabricated strap laces come at Rs. 4/- to Rs. 8/- per meter. If you want to have rubber straps then it costs Rs. 75/- to Rs. 100/- per dozen depending on the quality of the product.

Slipper making business, as mentioned, needs less investment. To start this business at large level or to yield higher amount of output, manufacturers need nearly 
Rs. 5 to 6 Lac. With medium size investment large scale business can be started. On the contrary those who are willing to start it with small output will have to spend at 
least Rs. 1 Lac for the business set up.

Slipper Making Machine
Slipper making business need a number of machines to start up. Firstly you need a Sole Cutting Machine. These machines are used to cut the long rubber sheets into pieces following the perfect shape and size. These machines are hand operated.
After that a drilling machine is needed for the holes on the soles. That is drilling machines are used to make holes on the slippers. Some of the drilling machines can put the straps in to the holes.
Not all the drilling machines are capable of fixing straps. To fix the straps you can use hand tools. They are easy to use and do not need much skill. Through these hand tools the straps are being fixed tightly to the sole.
Finally you need a finishing machine. Finishing machines cut and shape the slipper and the straps in a proper way. If you are using automatic machines then finishing will be done by the single machine only.
Other than these machines there are some dies like shape and size dies are required for slipper making business. These dies can be fitted to the machines you are using for the cutting. High quality machines have their dies with them, some of the low quality machines do not have the dies, manufacturers have to buy them and fix them separately.
Where to get Machines and Its Price
Machines are available in online as well as offline stores. Dealers who deal in heavy machineries can have these machines. In case of online stores there are many websites that deal in slipper making machines. Anyone can check them online. Also the specifications and the capacity of such machines are being mentioned in all these websites.

These machines costs differently based on their quality and capacity. Basic machines that are used to cut the soles are priced from Rs. 18000/- and more. These machines can’t do anything other than cutting and shaping the soles.

If the manufacturer wants to use high quality automatic shoe making machines, then they come at price Rs. 1 Lac and more. Some of the machines cost 
Rs. 2.5 Lac depending on how well they can serve. These expensive machines are used to manufacture any type of shoes not just the slippers. These machines can be used 
as finishing machines as well.

Packaging Process
Packaging process for the slippers need a few simple steps. Firstly you need plastic bags or covers to pack the slippers. Get these sheets or plastic bags from the market, you can stick your company logo on it or leave it like it is.

After wrapping the slippers in a plastic packet, pack them in a cartoon box. Also you can use company stickers or logo on the carton box to show your brand name. Now, you need a big cartoon box to pack the lot of slippers and to send it to the market or to the retailer. All these packaging materials are easily available in the market.