TISSUE PAPER MAKING

1. Industry Overview

Experts expected the global tissue paper market to enjoy substantial growth over the next 5 years on account of its multiple applications in the growing markets. The drivers of the tissue paper industry are expected to be the changing lifestyle of consumers, rising healthcare expenditures, growing population and low penetration of substitutes for paper tissues.

Also, the tissue paper industry is expected to dominate the market owing to the growing awareness of cleanliness. The production of tissue paper is done by a paper machine which is fitted to a single large steam heated drying cylinder with hot air hood on it.

The raw material used in its production is generally paper pulp, though, owing to the technological advancement and innovation in the manufacturing of tissue paper, paper pulp is now used in less quantity. The tissue paper market is classified into three main types on the basis of the raw material used for its production.

They include; wood free (or chemical), wood containing (or mechanical pulp) and recovered paper. The tissue paper market is further categorized into five types based on usage into, Bathroom Tissue, Paper Napkin, Paper Towel, Facial Tissue and, Specialty and Wrapping Tissue.

2. List of Niche ideas in the Tissue Paper Manufacturing Business

Doing a thorough research for your business is pertinent if you plan to run a successful business. It’s your duty as an entrepreneur to gather adequate information on manufacturing process, working capital, cost of the required machinery, how to fund the business and the niches in the industry.

Before starting your business, choose the type of product you want to produce. If you have a large scale business, you can include two or more types of products in your manufacturing list. There are different types of tissue papers available in the market. They may include..

Toilet Tissue Paper
Facial Tissues
Tissue Napkins
Paper Towels
Level of Competition in the Tissue Paper Manufacturing Business

According to reports, people in North America are consuming around three times as much tissue as Europe. Out of the world’s estimated production of 21 million tonnes (21,000,000 long tons; 23,000,000 short tons) of tissue, Europe produces approximately 6 million tonnes (5,900,000 long tons; 6,600,000 short tons).

Tissue paper production and consumption is expected to grow favourably due to factors like urbanization, growing disposable income and consumer spending. The general paper industry has been affected by the growing awareness of the repercussions of deforestation but the paper tissue industry, along with the rest of the paper manufacturing sector, has worked to minimize its impact on the environment.

Reports also have it that recovered fibres now represent some 46.5% of the paper industry’s raw materials. The industry depends heavily on biofuels (about 50% of its primary energy). Its specific primary energy consumption has reduced by 16% and the specific electricity consumption has reduced by 11%, due to measures such as improved process technology and investment in combined heat and power (CHP).

Specific carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels reduced by 25% due to process-related measures and the increased use of low-carbon and biomass fuels. Once consumed, most forest-based paper products start a new life as recycled material or biofuel.