BIO=DIESEL PRODUCTION

#1 Potential of Bio-Diesel Production Business (Market Opportunity)
The production growth of Bio-Diesel Production is steady during 2016 and it rapidly increases between 2017 and 2018 with the help of new feed-stock and advanced technology.

The industrial experts’ study predicts that the global market for bio-diesel will double over the next few years. Average Bio-Diesel Production will reach up to 65 billion gallons per year.

Various types of engine mechanism are coming nowadays that run on various fuels like petrol, gas etc.

Diesel is basic and most suitable fuel for every mechanism also bio-diesel is very similar to the diesel fuel, therefore, there is no need for modified engines to run on bio-diesel.

Another advantage of bio-diesel is, bio-diesel emission is less as compare to other fuel and make the same amount of energy.

Also, it is carbon neutral fuel which makes it environment-friendly and popular source of fuel

Therefore the market demand for bio-fuel is increasing day by day.

#2 Registrations & Licenses for Bio-Diesel Business
You need to get flood plain determination, motor fuel tax liability and a business license.

#1) Registration of Firm: You may start the bio-diesel production business either a Proprietorship or Partnership Firm.

If you are starting this business as One Person Company, then you have to register your firm as a proprietorship.

For partnership operation, you have to register as a limited liability partnership (LLP) or Pvt. Ltd. Company with Registrar of Companies (ROC).

#2) ASTM-D6781 grades: For producing and marketing bio-diesel legally it should conform to ASTM-D6781 grade quality diesel this process of registration and permits is time taking

#3) Fire safety standards and certification: Bio-diesel is a combustible liquid classified under class IIB. To initiate the Bio-Diesel Production business you need to register for fire safety standards and certification.

#4) Emission permit: Your Bio-Diesel Production unit needs to get Department of environment emission permit per day, including water and waste management agreement.

#5) Storage shed certification: Further permits including spill containment management, Bio-diesel plant, and straw Bale B100 storage shed certification.

#6) GST Registration: It is mandatory to get GST number for every business.

#7) Pollution Certificate: Bio-Diesel production may deals with the pollution therefore you need to apply for Pollution Certificate.

#8) MSME/SSI Registrations: MSME/SSI Registrations will help you to get the government facilities and schemes.

#9) Finally, you need to apply for motor fuel tax and floodplain determine before starting business action.

#3 Area Required for Bio-Diesel Production (Location)
While staring Bio-Diesel Production plant it is better to purchase land due to permit and registration issue.

You need to build a large tank farm, therefore, the area space must be large that sufficient for your plant. Minimum 2000 sq ft. area required for the Bio-Diesel plant.


 
Consider flood plain level, feed-stock availability in that area and good access of transportation.

You need to follow government rule incentives and proper protocol that are mention to initiate Bio-Diesel Production plant.

#4 Raw Materials for Bio-Diesel Business
Selecting good feed-stock this is a challenging task to do.

The type of feed-stock or raw material used is an important factor for the production and progress of Bio-Diesel Production plant business

Choosing cheaper feed-stock will help to dominate the industry also for increasing volume and profit.

The common raw material is fat oil, beef tallow, and restaurant grease, the Recycled feed-stock is the richest source open to a Bio-Diesel Production plant.

Vegetable Oil:
We all know where Vegetable oil is get from; kitchens, restaurants, and hotels are best sources of waste vegetable oil

You can use virgin oil but it would be costly therefore we recommend the used vegetable oil

Methanol:
You can get methanol from chemical merchants. It is quite expensive because of its use in industries and laboratories.

Methanol is the second most important ingredient in bio-diesel production after the vegetable oil.

Methanol is also known as ‘Methyl Alcohol’.

It’s a very versatile chemical that’s used in industries and laboratories. It’s also quite affordable.

Lye:
Lye is known as Potassium Hydroxide or Sodium Hydroxide and it acts as catalysts during the reaction of the oil and methanol

Lye widely used in soap making and lye is known in the market as ‘Caustic Soda’.

Bio-Diesel Production plant includes Equipment such as tank farm and bio-diesel processing system.

Feed-stock List
Lye
Methanol
Recycled Vegetable Oil
Restaurant grease
Sodium hydroxide
Soybean oil
Sunflower oil
#5 Machinery for Bio-fuel Business
You can produce bio-diesel by two ways one is by fat oil where generally vegetable oil is used as feed-stock.

Another method for bio-diesel production is using methanol.


 
List of apparatus and machinery used in bio-diesel plant is given below

Thermometer
Conical flask
Hot plate
Magnetic stirrer
Oven
Separating funnel
Water bath
Digital weighing balance
Hydrometer
Measuring cylinder
Pipette
Retort stand
Stopwatch
Related Business Ideas:

Agarbatti Making Business

Candle Making Business

Chalk Making Business

Honey Processing Business

Spice Powder Making Business

Cashew nut Processing Manufacturing

#6 Manufacturing Process for Bio-Diesel Business
Oil Filtration:
Vegetable oil is filleted with Paint Filter so the food or other impurities present in oil are removed and we get the filtered uniform oil.

Desolation:
Add 200 ml of Methanol: Add methanol in blender or mixer, make sure that not to spill, set the blender at low.

Add 3.5 Gram of Lye: lye has absorbed the moisture from the air, ensure that the lye is tightly sealed while taking the weight.