INVITATION CARD MAKING

How to Make invitation card business?

Steps

1. Research the invitation market. ...
2. Write your business plan. ...
3. Choose your business name and form the business entity. ...
4. Apply for a business license. ...
5. Finalize your funding sources. ...
6. Purchase equipment and supplies. ...
7. Set your pricing. ...
8. Create designs or samples to build your portfolio and attract customers.



1 Research the invitation market.

Check other invitation businesses for ideas and to see where your skills will best fit. Decide if you will focus on any particular niche of invitations, such as weddings, birthdays or babies.
Determine the type of printing you will be doing. Invitations can be printed on inkjet printers, laser printers or you can use a printing press if you plan to offer formal 
invitations such as wedding invitations.

2 Write your business plan.

The business plan should include an overview and description of your business, the research information on the market and competition, a description of your products and services, your budget, location (storefront or online), equipment and marketing plans.
The business plan will help you focus your ideas for your business and give you a reference to work from as you move through the steps.

3 Choose your business name and form the business entity.

Apply with your Secretary of the State to form your business entity (sole proprietorship, partnership, LLC, corporation). File with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to get an 
Employer Identification Number (EIN), which is how you will identify your business for tax purposes and when working with vendors. You will also need to apply for a resale 
certificate through the Department of Revenue in your state in order to collect and submit required sales tax.

4 Apply for a business license.

This is done locally and will vary based on your local and state regulations.
The Small Business Administration website at www.SBA.gov provides information about required business licenses and permits based on location.

5 Finalize your funding sources.

  a. Make sure funding is available to cover your projected start-up costs and budget.
  b. The amount of money required to start an invitation printing business will vary based on your plans for the location and equipment.

6 Purchase equipment and supplies.

 Decide on whether you will outsource to a print shop or purchase your own equipment.

 Printing equipment can vary from laser printers to a printing press, depending on the type of printing you will be 

 You will need a graphic design software program such as Adobe Illustrator to design your invitations.

 You will also need to purchase different types of paper, envelopes, printer ink, paper cutters and decorative embellishments, if desired.

7 Set your pricing.

Your pricing will be determined by the type of invitations you are creating and how you are printing them. It can also vary by location if you have a storefront. Use the market 
research from your business plan to help you decide on appropriate pricing.

8 Create designs or samples to build your portfolio and attract customers.

Show off your creative skill by designing invitations that can serve as samples or templates.
You can also show off your design talents in the creation of your own business cards, letterhead and logo.























