WEBSITE DEVELOPMENT

1. Create a good website. This might seem obvious but your website reflects your talents. ...

2. Create your own brand. Make sure your website promotes your brand. ...

3. Pricing.

4. Education. 

5. Promotion.

6. Write a newsletter.

7. Join a community


1. Create a good website
This might seem obvious but your website reflects your talents. Show off what you know and what you can do on your own website. Your will have more potential clients if your website has the latest features. Make sure you stand out in the crowd. There are many website builders out there. Be sure to choose one that suits your needs. Look at your competitions web sites and make yours even better.

2. Create your own brand
Make sure your website promotes your brand. Design an interesting logo and create a unique color scheme for your site. If you are not the designing type you can hire a professional to design your logo. They can make your ideas into a neat and desirable logo. When people see your logo they should think of your website. Figure out your target audience and design your website to suit their needs. If you are catering to an older audience, make sure your website is easily maneuverable. You may need to point out things that might be obvious to a younger crowd. Know your audience. And, of course, have a catchy tag line. It should be short, sweet, and memorable. Think of famous slogans. They are all under five words. Make your slogan catchy.

3. Pricing
You should look around at other sites. See what they are charging and offering. Do not plagiarize their sites, but glean information from them. Web developers need to know how to price their talent. Be sure you are in the right range and are offering all the latest features to your clients. Find a good company to work with to accept credit card payments. See who your competitors are using. If they have been in business for awhile, they have made mistakes and corrected them. Use their knowledge to build a great website, take a look at the examples provided at small business website builders.

4. Education
Be sure to mention all of your certifications you have and any education that pertains to web building. Customers want to use people who have experience and skills. They will feel more comfortable knowing that you have the credentials to back your work. You want your customers to know you are trustworthy and have background skills.

5. Promotion
Now that you have your website set up and are ready to roll it is time to promote your new business. In order to build your business you have to promote it. Find three or four platforms you can use to promote your business. Platforms like Twitter, YouTube, and Google are good platforms to start with. Do not try to promote your business on too many platforms or you will not be able to keep up with them. Good promoting skills will help you attract customers to your website. Finding your niche in social media is a critical tool nowadays.

6. Write a newsletter
You need clients in order to grow your business. Finding clients can be difficult. One way to find clients is to make a list of potential clients. You can start with family, friends, coworkers, past employers, and anyone else you can think of. Gather their email addresses and create a newsletter and tell them what you are doing with a link to your website. Encourage them to pass along the information to other people they know. You might consider listing your prices on your webpage so potential customers have an idea of what things will cost. You do not want to end up with customers who cannot pay you. You may consider bundling some of your offers to make them more affordable and attractive to your new customers.

7. Join a community
Find online communities where your potential clients hang out. If you are active in these communities you can promote your business directly to potential customers. The more active you are, the more clients will see you. Get to know them and direct them to your website. If they have suggestions for you site, take them to heart. You potential clients know what they want from a website and they can have good suggestions for boosting your sales.

