DELIVERY SERVICES

Starting a Delivery Service – 7 Superb Delivery Business Ideas

    Grocery delivery.
    Courier services.
    Food delivery service.
    Errand services-: Another good idea is to start an errand service business. ...
    Gift basket delivery.
    Pizza delivery.
    Dry cleaning delivery.

1. Grocery delivery

I already mentioned grocery delivery, so I guess it is okay to start with it. Grocery delivery business is quite easy, and it’s one of the most lucrative forms of delivery business.

There are two ways to run your grocery delivery business. First, you can either own a mobile grocery store where your van would be used to stock different grocery items that you could sell as you move around or deliver on demand. Second, you can focus on delivery alone—meaning that you would only purchase and deliver pre-ordered items.

2. Courier services

From time to time, people need to send and receive parcels. E-commerce has even made this function more important because businesses regularly need to send products bought by their customers online. You can start a courier service that picks up and drops off packages for people without stress.

3. Food delivery service

Starting a food delivery service is another great idea. Many people want easy access to food when they are at work or when they are too busy to make their own meals. With your own food delivery service, you would be helping to solve a major need and smiling to the bank at the same time.

4. Errand services-: Another good idea is to start an errand service business. You can help people complete tasks or make purchases on their behalf and deliver it to their homes.

5. Gift basket delivery

Gifting is a tradition—one that is not going extinct anytime soon. You can leverage on this to create your own gift basket delivery service, helping people deliver gifts, flowers, chocolates, and other interesting items to their friends and loved ones.

6. Newspaper delivery service

Newspaper delivery is not in any way a new concept. Nevertheless, there’s still enough room for newcomers in this business. You can even look for a way to spice up your own newspaper delivery business and make it stand out from others rendering the same service.

7. Pizza delivery

There are two ways to start a pizza delivery business. You can either learn how to make your own pizza (which you would deliver to your customers on order) or partner with a notable pizza hut and simply buy from them to deliver whenever there is an order.

8. Dry cleaning delivery

Another great delivery business idea to consider is to help people drop off and pick up their dry cleaning. Sometimes, we get so busy that we cannot even afford the time to pick up our laundry. Wouldn’t it be a huge relief to have someone pick it up and drop it off on our behalf for a token?