EVENT PLANING

I've composed a Six-step list on how to start your very own event planning business, from ideation to execution.

    Identify whether your skills are right for event planning. ...
    Obtain certifications. 
    Identify your target market. 
    Develop your business plan. 
    Tackle the legal side of your business. 
    Obtain startup funding.

1. Identify whether your skills are right for event planning

Event planning requires a very specific personality: one that is outgoing, social, and creative enough to tackle the forever-shifting tasks needed plan a successful event.

If you are better suited working behind a desk with little customer engagement, then event planning is not right for you. If you prefer working alone in a non-collaborative, yet organized environment, then you may want to reconsider this career move. Finally, if on-the-spot creative thinking is not your strong suit, then your ambitions might be a better fit elsewhere.

However, if client-facing work excites you, if teamwork contributes to your happiness, and if a fast-paced work environment fits your pace, managing an event management company might be the perfect business for you.
2. Obtain certifications

Just like any other industry, prior experience is essential to starting a successful event business. Would trust your only car to an uncertified, tentative mechanic to replace its engine? If not, then why should someone trust you with their events if you have no professional experience or certifications of your own?

Before investing your retirement and family time into starting an event planning business, consider the many certification courses out there to prepare you for all of the ins-and-outs of event management.

Even if you have previous experience organizing events for a company, organization, or local group, it is always best to have some formal certification which solidifies your experience for clients. Not to mention, there is always something new to learn.

Luckily, I have already compiled a list of five quality event planning certification classes that will help give you the experience and credibility that you need:

1. Emory University Event Planning Certification

Price: $1,995

Topics:

    Event Budgeting
    Client/Vendor/Volunteer Relations
    Event Logistics
    “Green” Events
    Event Marketing
    Event Terminology

2. Universal Class: Event Planning 101

Price: $70.00 no certificate/$95 with certificate

Topics:

    Wedding Planning
    Networking Events
    Corporate Events
    How to Start Your Own Event Planning Service
    Is Event Planning Right for You?

3. International Institute of Event Management (IIEM)

Price: $345 – $875

Topics:

    Budgeting
    Wedding Planning Strategy
    Venue Selection
    Logistics
    Aesthetics
    Conferences
    Fundraisers
    Trandshows
    Contracts
    Social Event Planning
    Corporate Event Planning
    Meetings
    Career Strategies
    Birthday Planning
    Baby Showers
    Family Reunions
    Anniversary Parties
    Event Marketing and Social Media

4. QC Event School

Price: $748 – $998

Topics:

    Event/Wedding Planning
    Logistics
    Starting your Business
    Vendor/Client Relations
    Project Management
    Social Events
    Wedding Aesthetics
    Budgeting
    Layouts
    Lighting
    Color Scheming
    Table Decor
    Floral Design
    Rentals
    Building your Brand

5. Special Events Institute: Event Planning Certification

Price: $199 – $499

Topics:

    Event Life Cycle
    Event Types
    Event Proposals
    Budgeting
    Contracts
    Event Design Process
    Layouts and Schematics
    Floral Decor
    Design Elements
    Color Schemes
    Site Selection
    Event Elements Assessment
    Catering and Cuisine
    Tented Events
    Event Tech
    Entertainment
    Lighting
    Special Effects
    Service Management
    Green Events/Sustainability
    Management Ethics
    Event Marketing
    Wedding Planning
    Corporate Events

These courses will help you know what to do when things go right and when things go wrong. Now that you know all there is to know about event planning, it’s time to decide whether you want to do general event planning or select a niche market to target.
3. Identify your target market

Before you begin building your event planning business, it is also important to decide on its focus. Decide what types of events you want to plan. Some businesses do industry-agnostic event planning, whereas others capture a niche market, such as corporate events or wedding planning.

According to Entrepreneur, there are four types of events:

    Celebrational: These events are festive and exciting. They include fairs, parades, weddings, reunions, birthdays, anniversaries
    Educational: More formal and information heavy. Includes conferences, meetings, graduations
    Promotional: These events are a mix of the first two, combining festivities with information. Examples include product launches, political rallies, fashion shows
    Commemorative: Finally, these events are formal yet are meant to remember important figures and events with memorial services and civic events

My advice would be to start with a niche and expand outward to other event types, so as not to overextend your resources too soon. General event planning demands more experience, staff, and resources due to the vast differences in these types of events.

For example, if white collar events are more suited to your style, then start with educational events. You should build your business, your clients, your resources, and your staff around the needs of white collar event planning.

Once you find yourself on solid ground within your niche with room to expand, then that is the time to do so.
4. Develop your business plan

Now that you’ve established what your niche will be, it’s time to start laying the foundational work for your event planning business, which includes your business plan. Every business, from Walmart to small nonprofits, needs a business plan to guide their decision making process, educate investors and lenders of your intentions, and to keep your business on the right path when times get rough.

What does every business plan need? According to Forbes, every business plan should include a:

1. Cover page

All this page needs is the prospective name of your business and your contact information so that investors and lenders can reach you.

2. Executive summary

Like an introductory paragraph of a blog post or opening scene to a movie, your executive summary is your opportunity to hook your audience and give them a taste of what is to come. You will describe your event planning business, what makes your event planning business different (AKA your secret sauce), and why your business will succeed.

3. Company overview

Think of this as the Facebook profile of your business. Your company overview will include your company’s location, name, when it was formed, what type of event planning business it is, and in what legal form (like a limited liability company, S corporation, or sole proprietorship).

4. Industry analysis

Create a report on the industry you plan on entering and competing in. What trends are you planning on seizing on? What is everyone else missing that you have? Statistics and charts come in handy here!

5. Customer analysis

Flesh out who your customer base is. Is it corporations? Startup companies? Individuals? Be as specific as possible. Surveys and studies conducted by major event planners have conducted plenty of research into this subject.

6. Competitive analysis

Here is where you get specific about who your key competitors are, what they do, what their ballpark figures look like, and what each of their strengths and weaknesses are. Take the opportunity to further explain your market advantage.