HOUSE PANTING

How to Start a Painting Business for $500

    Register your company – $100.
    Create a website – Free.
    Get insurance – $100 per month.
    Painting equipment – Free (I'll explain later)
    Bid for jobs.
    Getting your first painting customer – $100.
    Make a profit.


Step 1: Register Your Painting Business

In the United States, you can simply google “business registration” in your state and find the state secretary site where you can register. This only takes 10-15 minutes and costs just $50-$100.
Step 2: Create a Website

So many websites offer a free trial for this. Weebly or Wix are a couple of good ones. Don’t complicate this, you really only need a contact page just to show you’re a real company.

I’ve known people who will put off making a website for months because it’s not perfect yet – or spend an absurd amount of money with a designer. Truthfully, you’ll get such little traffic (if any) at the beginning. Just make a site to show your customers that has all the relevant information on it. You can make it look better over time.
Step 3: Get Insurance

In some states in the US, you don’t need an actual license for residential painting. You only need liability insurance for your painting business. This usually costs around $100 per month for a million-dollar policy.

Editor’s note: If you are in a state that DOES require a contractor’s license, here’s a page that’ll walk you through everything you need.
Step 4: Get Painting Equipment (Or Rather, Don’t Get Painting Equipment)

Painting equipment can be expensive, especially when you’re just starting out. For example, just a paint sprayer can cost you a thousand dollars. I’m showing you how to start a painting business with under $500. So my advice is: DON’T buy equipment.

You’d be amazed how many sub-contractors have their own equipment, AND are willing to paint your house for 50-60% of what you’re charging the customer. After spending roughly 15% on paint and materials, you’ll be left with around 30% profit.

You might be asking, “Where do I get the 15% for materials?”

Most customers expect to pay a deposit when they schedule your painting services. I personally collect 25% from the customer up front. This will easily pay for any paint or materials you’ll need before starting the house.
Step 5: How to Bid a Paint Job

There’s a much more detailed article about this HERE, but we’ll cover the basics here. The easiest way to get to work and start making your profit after 1 week, is to bring your sub-contractor or painting crew to the job site and negotiate how much to pay them.

They will know WAY more than you will about estimating when you first start, so seek advice from a crew that knows their stuff.

For example, you sell a paint job for $2500. You bring your sub to the job and they say they’ll do it for $1200 if YOU buy materials. Paint and Materials on a $2500 job will usually be $300-$400.

Suddenly you’re left with an $800-$1000 profit on your first job. AND you only spent out-of-pocket money on your painting business registration and insurance.
Step 6: Get Your First Painting Customers

There are many ways to do this, which we’ve also detailed HERE. But the cheapest, easiest way to get your first customer is to knock on doors.

Some people are afraid to do this at first (I definitely was). I can still feel my heart jumping out of my throat after ringing my first doorbell. This nervousness will subside, I promise.

By knocking on doors for a couple hours, you will generate 3 to 5 leads on average. We’ve run hundreds of marketing teams to arrive at this average.

Of the 5 leads, 3 of those will turn into in-home estimates where you can potentially sell your first customer.

Of the 3 estimates, you will sell 1.

DISCLAIMER: Most people are bad at sales the first time. I get goosebumps thinking about how awkward my first estimates were. But after persevering, I became a very good salesman, where I could consistently sell about half of my overall estimates.

If you are just starting, you will be bad at estimates. So make sure to get enough door-to-door leads to set up 10 estimates or so. Even if you’re bad, you’ll probably sell at least 1 of those. And then you’ll just get better, the more you do it!
Step 7: Paint the House

I covered this a little bit earlier: use sub-contractors. Like everything about this business, it’s a numbers game. You might go through hiring and firing 4 or 5 crews before you find a reliable one.

That’s one of the biggest questions or complaints I get. How do you find good help? Again, persistence. I went through about 10 crews before I found my favorite one (that I still use to this day). Great crews DO exist!

A lot of painting crews are unreliable, sloppy, or too expensive for sub-contracting. I refuse to hire a crew with poor quality. I promise the best to my customers, so I deliver the best.

A good crew should be able to complete a $2500 painting job with high quality and good prep in 2 days.
Step 8: Make a Profit

I made so many mistakes when I first started my painting business. I’d like to save you from these costly mistakes:

    Overpaying your sub-contractors
    Spending too much at the paint store
    Losing money by underbidding the job
    Hiring sloppy painters
