COFFEE SHOP

7 Tips to Open a Successful Coffee Shop

1. Create a solid business plan

One of the first serious steps you’ll take toward opening your coffee shop is to create a business plan. This document spells out exactly what your business is, how it will be profitable, defines your customer base, explores competitors, plans for growth, and provides troubleshooting strategies should you need help achieving your goals.
But, go the Lean Planning route to start
Before you dive into creating a traditional, long-form business plan (which really you only need if you’re seeking funding from a bank), we recommend creating a one-page pitch. This will allow you to quickly validate your business idea as well as get a good sense of who your market is, how you’re going to reach them and how you’re going to differentiate yourself from your competitors.
This process is part of what we call Lean Planning which is a faster, more efficient way to plan your business.

2. Take the time to find the right building

To be successful, you need the right location for your coffee shop. You probably want something centrally located, a place where people already gather, and a space that’s conducive to your vision. Jack Wilson, the owner of Radio Coffee and Beer, warns that finding this dream spot won’t happen overnight.
His team scoured city after city, scouting each location, even going so far as to count pedestrian traffic. He was looking for for a former restaurant space, so he didn’t have to remodel everything from scratch. Finally, one day when he dropped his keys on the sidewalk he noticed a tiny “for sale” sign in a former tavern window. After months of searching, he’d found his spot.

3. Create a floor plan

A solid floor plan is vital for a coffee shop. You want customers to have space to form a line, employees to have the materials they need within reach to quickly make coffee, and a seating area that’s comfortable. It will take some time to produce a good floor plan, Wilson says.
“Walk yourself through every scenario you can think of,” he says. “If you’re making coffee, what needs to be near you? If you’re a customer, what do you want in a seating area? Visualize everything you can and start putting those ideas down on paper.”

Demo floor plan via RoomSketcher.
Design your cafe floor plan online

Here are a few free websites you could use to kickstart your planning process. Once you’ve drawn up an initial sketch on paper, why not get it online and play around?
Autodesk Homestyler (free): This is probably my favorite of the lot. You can either start designing your floor from scratch, or choose from a gallery of designs and then personalize to bring your own look and feel into the picture. In fact, there’s even an option to experiment with real-world products and brands. When you’re done, share your design with your friends. They’ll be able to see it in 3D!
Floorplanner: This software is incredibly easy to use, with plenty of drag-and-drop furniture and other items to make your design look good. It’s clean and easy to use and displays your plan in both 2D and 3D. It can even be printed!
Gliffy: I’ve included Gliffy on this list because it’s a well-known diagram and flowchart application. If you’ve used it before for any of these things, you may want to give it a try, after all, the learning curve won’t be too steep. While you’re at it, you can even plot your SWOT analysis.

4. Hire an accountant

One of the best pieces of advice Wilson says he can offer a new coffee shop owner is to turn your books over to an accountant. Aside from taking valuable time away from the business, having a numbers expert works in your favor.
“You won’t be as hard on yourself as you sometimes might need to be,” Wilson says. “Plus, you will make assumptions that an accountant wouldn’t make.”
In reality, your accountant is really your small business consultant. Make sure you find someone who believes in you and can help accomplish your business goals.

5. Get local help for funding

Finding the startup funds for a coffee shop can be difficult. Renson suggests talking with friends and family about investing in your coffee shop first. Present a solid business plan to them and ask them to invest in your business.
If funding via your family isn’t an option, or if you need more cash than your family can provide, Renson suggests looking into local loan options. In some cases, cities offer business assistance programs to offset costs. Consider an SBA-backed loan and also see if a  local bank or credit union is an option.

6. Save money for your own expenses

Aside from startup costs, don’t forget that all of your time and energy will be devoted to your new business, a business that potentially won’t be profitable for around six months, even if you start bringing in revenue immediately.
So, plan ahead. Renson suggests making sure you set aside enough money to cover your personal expenses for at least six months. Decide whether it’s possible to run your coffee shop while working another job or side gig.
You will also want to understand the concept of cash flow, especially considering well over half of the businesses that fail were profitable when they went down, they just weren’t cash flow positive.

7. Shop around for everything

When you’re in the e planning and funding stages and working through your finances,  keep a list or spreadsheet of all the things you’ll need and compare prices.
Before you buy, try to get at least two price quotes for every item so you’re not losing money on basics. Use the internet to your advantage and look for the best prices on everything from comfy chairs to espresso machines.