JUTE BAG MAKING

How to Start Jute Bag Making Business

Do you want to start a jute bag manufacturing business project with small investment at home? Find here a sample jute bag making business plan with the manufacturing process, cost, machinery, raw materials.
 
Actually, jute is a long, soft, shiny vegetable fiber. It is also popular as ‘Golden fiber’. And currently, it is one of the strongest of all natural fibers available throughout the globe. Also, the jute fiber is reusable and biodegradable.

Jute fabrics are strong, durable, light, colorfast, attractive and cheaper than most fabrics made from other fibers. Additionally, these are anti-static and UV protective. 
Therefore, jute fabrics are excellent raw materials for jute bags.


Different Types of Jute Bag & Market Potential
There are numerous different types of jute bags you can find in the market. According to the lamination or lining, there are three different types of bags. These are

Unlaminated – Biodegradable
Laminated – Food Grade LDPE, splash resistant, wipe clean
Muslin Lined
Additionally, jute bag comes in a number of different handle options. These are

Jute Handles
Flat Cotton Strap
Cotton webbing, filled with rope
Cane Handles
Drawstring
Rope with eyelets
According to the use, there are several different types of jute bags. These are different in size, pattern, and color. These are

Calico Bags
Jute Carry Bags
Shopping Bag
Conference Bag
Ladies Purse
Designer Bag
Jute Conference Bags
Promotional Bag
Jute Drawstring Pouches
Jute Wine Bottle Bags
Juco Bags
Decorated jute bags and shopping bags are very much in demand both for the domestic and international market. With the increase of population, the scope of trade and industry is also
increasing.

As the bags are an essential commodity for human, so the demand for the product is growing day by day. The demands of the product remain consistent throughout the year. So, it is presumed that there is a good scope for starting of such type of industry with a huge export potential.

Jute Bag Making Business Plan Sample
Identify the Demand
This is the most important aspect you need to consider prior. You must identify the demand for the specific type of jute bag in the local market. Additionally, check the retail price, who are the manufacturers and their marketing policy. These all will help you in writing the business plan and starting your jute bag making business.

Craft a Business Plan
Even, if you start the business from home, then also you must craft a business plan. And your business plan must consist financial analysis of startup cost and marketing plan. Also, 
mention your business objective, target demographic and marketing strategy. As a jute bag manufacturer, you must offer the right product at the right price to the right audience.


Register your Business
You must register your business with the proper form of business organization. For a very small startup, you can opt for proprietorship company. However, you may go with partnership, LLP or INC companies according to your business size and investment model.

Generally, this type of business doesn’t demand any specific licenses from the Government authorities. However, check the local Federal laws before initiating the business. Also, you will need to check the upcoming tax liabilities too.

Jute Bag Making Business Startup Cost
Generally, the startup cost consists of procuring machinery, raw materials and other resources including manpower. Additionally, you will need to have marketing and distribution costs. If you are starting a small-scale unit, then it is better to start with own fund. Otherwise, you can apply for a bank loan or venture capital investment.

Jute Bag Making Unit Setup
Generally, with 500 Sq Ft of an area, you can set up a small jute bag making business. However, you must have the electricity connection for operating the machinery. Additionally, space must have a wide entrance.

After securing the space, you must craft a floor plan. Broadly, you will need to identify the space for the production area, storage, and an admin area. You will need some space for office work including raising invoices, money receipt etc.

Jute Bag Making Machinery
Generally, jute bag making business doesn’t demand any heavy machinery. Simply, you will need to procure

Wooden Printing Table
The screen of Diff. Design
Rubber Wiper
Dye Paste Stirrer
Water Drum
Cottage Steamer
Tubes, Steel Spoons, Mugs, Bucket, Roper, Clips, Stools etc.
Lock Stitch Machine
Wooden Working Table
Cutting Table
Electric Fittings
Scissors, Measuring tape and other Equipment
Raw Materials
The major required raw materials for printed and decorated jute shopping bags are jute fabrics. Additionally, you will need to procure the dyestuff, printing gum, chemicals, and auxiliaries. Also, you will need to have PVC buckle and bamboo sticks, sewing thread, packing materials, label etc. You can procure the raw materials easily from the local wholesale market.

Jute Bag Making Process
First of all, you will need to procure the woven jute fabric from the wholesale market or manufacturers. Spread them on the printing table and fix the requisite auxiliaries/ingredients.

Then you will need to print it by screen printing according to the design and color. After that, wash the printed fabric and dry under sunlight or through drier.

Then cut the printed fabric as per required design and sizes of the bag. Stitch the cut pieces by lockstitch machine. Then, you will need to attach the PVC buckle or bamboo stick etc. manually. Now the bags are ready for the market.

Promote your Jute Bag Making Business
As such any product on this planet needs promotion. And your jute bags are also similar. Generally, the retail distribution is the most proven way of establishing any product in the market. However, you must consider the institutional sales also.

Apart from the offline promotion, concentrate on the online too. According to the brand name of your company, secure a domain name and build a business website. Also, use the social media carefully for promoting your jute bag widely.

