CHOCOLATE MAKING

When you own a chocolate making business, you can expect to complete these tasks on any given day:

    Craft fine chocolates with a keen attention to detail and consistency.
    Adhere to sanitary food preparation guidelines according to your Board of Health.
    Clean the kitchen.
    Order supplies.
    Conduct quality control tests.


Who is this business right for?

If you love creating new and original chocolate treats, and enjoy spending hours every day crafting fine candies, opening your own chocolate making business might be right for you. The successful candidate will also enjoy teaching others to duplicate their recipes, manage portion control, market their products, and balance the books.
What happens during a typical day at a chocolate business?

When you own a chocolate making business, you can expect to complete these tasks on any given day:

    Craft fine chocolates with a keen attention to detail and consistency
    Adhere to sanitary food preparation guidelines according to your Board of Health
    Clean the kitchen
    Order supplies
    Conduct quality control tests
    Train chocolatiers in new recipes and products
    Pack candies for shipment or delivery with attention to maintaining product quality
    Market your product and business to potential customers nearby and online
    Pay invoices and collect payments
    Complete payroll for your staff
    Operate your store, if included with your business model
    Inform consumers of ingredients with complete list of potential allergens

What is the target market?

If you operate a small kitchen, your perfect customer will value fine chocolates personally crafted for their enjoyment and be willing to pay a premium for your treats. For a bigger candy kitchen, target gift shops, grocery stores, and other local retailers who would be willing to sell your product on their shelves. Gift services such as flower shops and fine food baskets may hire you to provide chocolates for their larger designs.
How does a chocolate business make money?

For the finest chocolates, it takes time to create perfection. You will charge your customers for the highest quality ingredients and the hours spent crafting your product. However, lower quality chocolate generates the most money through volume, selling lots of small bags of sweets to hungry customers. Carefully target your audience before settling on recipes and pricing structure.
What is the growth potential for a chocolate business?

Should you create a new chocolate treat that takes your neighborhood by storm, expansion into larger candy stores, distribution to more outlets and increasing internet sales provide endless opportunities for expansion.  However, success begins with the best chocolates.
