NOODLES MAKING

How To Start Noodles Manufacturing Business

Noodles Market Potential
The product has the good potential market in the both urban and rural areas of our country. And the popularity in increasing rapidly. Due to fast cooking properties, instant noodles today have a hugely important position in almost every Indian kitchen. Some of the most popular brands are Maggi, Yippee, Top Ramen, Knorr, and Patanjali. Additionally, some of the major reasons for its popularity are

Increasing population of the country.
Rapid industrialization in the country.
Increasing purchasing capacity of the people.
The durability of the product.
The changing eating habit of the population.
Increasing preference for ready to eat food because of the increasing numbers of working couples etc.
Noodles Manufacturing Legal Compliances
This is a food product item. And the business demands specific licensing before commencing the manufacturing operation. Check the state law of your area. Here we put some of the basic requirements.

First of all, register your business with ROC. Choose your organization form carefully.
Obtain Trade License from the local authority.
In addition, you must apply for Udyog Aadhaar MSME online registration.
Apply for VAT Registration.
Additionally, you will need to apply for FSSAI license.
Furthermore, obtain BIS Certification. It is mandatory.
Compliance with PFA Act and GMP are mandatory.
Register your brand name with Trademark
Furthermore, you can also go for ISO 9001 certification to generate the trust of your consumers.
This type of manufacturing operation doesn’t demand Pollution Control NOC, However, you can check with your local office. Additionally, you must maintain the good height of the roof of your workshop. And arrange exhaust fans to maintain a comfortable environment inside the factory premises.
Related: Small Business Registration In India | Basic Guide

Noodle Manufacturing Plant Setup
This type of manufacturing operation doesn’t demand a lot of space. However, you will need to secure a space of at least 700 Sq Ft for small scale operation. It is advisable to have a floor plan in hand before installing the machinery. Ensure the specific space for manufacturing, packaging, storage and space for official work. Additionally, arrange the utilities like electricity, water, and skilled manpower. Check what are the nearby transport facilities are available.

Related: Small Business Manufacturing | Things To Consider Before Starting 

Noodles Manufacturing Machine
Choosing a right machine is extremely important in any type of manufacturing business. A wrong selection of machine may damage the quality and profitability of the product. So, it is advisable to take expert advice in getting the most suitable machine according to your specific requirement.

You can start a noodle manufacturing project by two ways. One is as semi-automatic and another is fully-automatic. Different types of machines are available in the market. Here we put some of the basic requirements.

Vertical type powder mixer with motor
Dough mixer blade type
Noodles making power operated machine with different size die-heads
Weighing scales platform type
Wooden trays
Plastic Buckets
Aluminum/Galvanised iron water tape pipeline fittings
Water boiler-fuel heated
Pouch filling and sealing machine
Raw Materials For Noodles Manufacturing
According to the taste and flavor of your product, you will need to formulate the recipe. However, you can source the formula and manufacturing technology from the reliable source. Some of the basic required raw materials are wheat flour, sugar, salt, starch, vegetable oils, different spices, Sodium Bicarbonate etc. Additionally, you will need to procure the packaging consumables like pouches and outer boxes.

Noodles Manufacturing Process Flowchart
Noodles manufacturing attracts following steps.

Dry Mixing
The average moisture content of dry mixes is 10-11%. First of all, you must blend the three ingredients maida, starch, and soda bicarbonate in a vertical mixer. Additionally, you will need to mix the edible color.

Dough Formation
You can make satisfactory dough with the above blend only by using boiled water. You will find a gelatine form of the starch here. Then mix the ingredients in the dough mixer for about 12 to 15 minutes.

Extrusion
Then transfer the kneaded dough to the noodles making machine. From here you can produce extruded material of desired shape and length. However, you must use an appropriate type of die. Adjust the distance between the dye surface and cutting blade. The moisture content of the product at this stage is
about 33%.

Pre-drying
Then the cut noodles go from the cutting machine fall on wooden trays. The product undergoes surface drying and becomes sufficiently hard enough to handle without sticking or being crushed. The moisture content of the pre-dried product is about 29.5%.

Drying
Now the moisture content of the product is 17%. The final stage is steaming. After proper steaming, you can get a quality product that has longer shelf-life. The steamed and subsequently dried product has a
moisture content of about 10%.