SMALL BUSINESS MANUFACTURING

Below are some of the most important factors you should consider before starting a manufacturing business.

1. Demand for your product. ...
2. Setup costs. ...
3. Competition from other manufacturers. ...
4. Previous experience, knowledge and qualifications. ...
5. Finance available and finance options. ...
6. Business location. ...
7. Rules and regulations.

Demand for your product
First of all, there has to be a demand for the product or products you intend to manufacture. This requires extensive market research and an understanding of the customers who will buy your products. Once you identify a need for your product, you can begin to investigate other factors that will have an impact on your business.

Setup costs
Unlike many other types of startups, starting a manufacturing company can be quite expensive as a factory or appropriate workplace will be required. Setting up a manufacturing business also involves the purchase of specialized equipment and machinery. As well as this, you need to hire and pay experts who specialize in the area you are manufacturing in.

Competition from other manufacturers
When you are researching a market, identifying a demand for your products is only half the battle. This demand may already be catered for by other manufacturers so you need to find out as much as possible about your competition, what their market share is and how much of the market will be available to you.

Previous experience, knowledge and qualifications
It’s important to build a team of experienced, qualified professionals when you start any business. The direction the business takes will be the key to your success. You or staff members should have the relevant business qualifications and knowledge to do this.

This can be achieved by completing an online MBA degree or other accredited business qualification such as the AACSB online MBA which can be put to good use by you or your management team. Once you or the members of your management team complete one of these online MBA programs, you will be able to make more informed and confident decisions about the future of your business.

Finance available and finance options
In order meet the financial costs associated with a manufacturing business, you should have access to an adequate amount of capital. If this is not the case, you may need to rethink your plans and wait until you can afford to begin your new venture.

Business location
The location of your business could decide how successful it becomes. Initially you may need to find a business premises that is situated in a more affordable location. However, you don’t want to be too far away from your market or business associates either.

Rules and regulations
Different businesses have different rules and regulations that they must follow. There are usually more rules and regulations associated with manufacturing businesses, so you should be aware of the ones that apply to your type of business. The most common rules and regulations include health and safety and environmental regulations.

As you can see, you need to take into account many more factors when you start a manufacturing business, than you do with other types of businesses. Each of the factors above should be carefully considered so that your new business gets off to the best possible start.

