REASON WHY START-UP ENTREPRENEUR MUST HAVE BUSINESS PLAN

Why You Should Write a Business Plan

01  To Test the Feasibility of Your Business Idea

Creative business people reviewing proofs in sunny office
Milton Brown / Getty Images
Writing a business plan is the best way to test whether or not an idea for starting a business is feasible, other than going out and doing it.  In this sense, the business plan is your safety net; writing a business plan can save you a great deal of time and money if working through the business plan reveals that your business idea is untenable.

Often, an idea for starting a business is discarded at the marketing analysis or competitive analysis stage, freeing you to move on to a new (and better) idea.

02  To Give Your New Business the Best Possible Chance of Success

Business partners smiling in a wine bar
Jetta Productions /Getty Images
Writing a business plan will ensure that you pay attention to both the broad operational and financial objectives of your new business and the details, such as budgeting and market planning.

Taking the time to work through the process of writing a business plan will make for a smoother startup period and fewer unforeseen problems as your business becomes established.


03  To Secure Funding, Such as Bank Loans or Equity Financing

Small business loan application form
Teekid /Getty Images
Most new businesses need both startup and operating capital to get off the ground and without a well-developed business plan there is no chance of getting debt financing from established financial institutions such as banks or equity financing from angel investors (unless they happen to be family members or close friends).

And established businesses often need money, too, to do things such as buy new equipment or property, or because of market downturns. Having an up-to-date business plan gives you a much better chance of getting the money you need to keep operating or to expand.


04  To Make Business Planning Manageable and Effective

Creative team drawing a business plan
Andresr / Getty Images
A business plan is essential if you're thinking of starting a business, but it's also an important tool for established businesses. Viable businesses are dynamic; they change and grow. The company's original business plan needs to be revised as new goals are set.


05  To Attract Investors

A crowd of potential investors
Ryan McVay / Getty Images
Whether you want to shop your business to venture capitalists or attract angel investors, you need to have a solid business plan. A presentation may pique their interest, but they'll need a well-written document they can take away and study before they'll be prepared to make any investment commitment.​​​

Be prepared for your business plan to be scrutinized; both venture capitalists and angel investors will want to conduct extensive background checks and competitive analysis to be certain that what's written in your business plan is indeed the case.