TIPS TO ATTRACT CUSTOMER IN INDIA

1. Attract New Customers Using Social Media
Optimizing your social media accounts takes very little time to do and can significantly increase your reach. If your business does not currently have social media accounts, now’s the time to create them! Be sure to create accounts on the platforms your customers are on (typically Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram). Once you have social media accounts, don’t forget to optimize them.

Optimizing your social media profiles improves the visibility of your accounts, which gets your business found by more potential customers. Optimize your profile by adding your business’s name, location, contact information, business website, and maybe even a call to action to your profiles. For example, if you’re a restaurant, include your hours, location, and contact info. This will give customers all of the information they want right from your profile! Read more about how to create the perfect Instagram profile.

How To Increase Social Media Presence
Now that you’ve updated your accounts, it’s time to learn what to actually do with them. One of the best ways to attract more customers on social media is posting content related to your business. Unless they are directly related to your business, save your baby pictures and political opinions for your personal account. Posting regularly will also help get your business into the minds of consumers. Scheduling daily posts on your accounts is more than okay, but oversaturating your accounts with several posts in one day can annoy your audience and persuade them NOT to buy your service. Social sharing can help you grow your customer base and get new people in your demographic interested in your business.  

2. Improve Website SEO
Improving your website’s SEO, or Search Engine Optimization, can help you attract new customers. SEO is what help your business rank at the top of search engine results when people search for a product or service related to your field. SEO affects your website’s visibility on search engines. This means that the better optimized your website is through SEO, the more likely your website shows up on the first page of Google, which will make customers more likely to visit your business’s website. Some simple ideas for having better SEO include starting a blog, using keywords related to your business, adding your business’s location to your website, and avoiding having multiple domains for your business.            

3. Engage with Loyal Customers
Interacting with your clients is another way to attract more customers. Increase customer engagement by replying to comments on social media and spotlighting loyal customers.

Engaging with your audience can make your business become more personable, which will make your clients like you even more. If you make a good enough impression with these positive interactions, your current customers will be more likely to speak highly of your business to their family and friends, which can result in even more customers. By making your customers feel valued, you can make clients feel persuaded to share your business to their social circles and hopefully start a domino effect for your business’s advantage.

Related: Facebook Marketing Guide for Business Owners

4. Collaborate with Local Business Partners
Your business’s physical presence can bring in more customers for your small business, even if you currently don’t have an office space. One way your business can gain new customers is through partnering with local businesses. Partnering with local businesses is mutually beneficial for both parties involved. It can get your respective customer bases interested in the other business, which can attract more customers and increase sales for both businesses involved.

Although you may have certain businesses in mind because of personal friendships with their employees, be sure to choose businesses that are right for you. You should consider businesses who are nearby and whose target audience is relatively similar. It’s probably not in your best interest to partner with a business who has the same customers (i.e. business rivals) or a business whose consumer base barely overlaps with your own. For example, if you’re a landscaping company, it’s probably not a great decision to partner with a rival landscaping company or a women’s designer clothing store. Instead you can partner with a local flower shop or realtor—both of which have customers interested in landscaping services. Partnering with a local business is also a great way to bring legitimacy to your business, especially if you haven’t been around for that long.               

5. Social Media Giveaways
Social media giveaways can give people who aren’t current customers the opportunity to engage with and try out your business. Some ideas for social media contests include giving away a gift card for subscribing to your email newsletter, holding a photo contest with your custom business hashtag on Instagram, and featuring the funniest video of your customers using your product on your Facebook account. Check out more examples of Facebook contests and Instagram giveaways.            