CLERANCE FOR SMALL BUSINESS MANUFACTURING

Step 1: Provisional SSI Registration
To obtain SSI registration the business must first apply for Provisional SSI Registration Certificate (PRC). Provisional Registration Certificate is given when the unit is in a pre-operative period and helps the SSI unit obtain term loans and working capital from financial institutions/banks under priority sector lending. In addition to helping obtain bank loan, the provisional SSI registration certificate also helps the business obtain facilities for accommodation, land, other approvals etc. and obtain various necessary NOCs and clearances from regulatory bodies such as Pollution Control Board, Labour Regulations etc.

Provisional SSI registration can be applied for by a business at any time and industrial license is not required. Once an application is made for Provisional SSI registration, the provisional registration is provided and no field enquiry is done. Provisional SSI registrations are valid for five years and if the entrepreneur is unable to set up the unit in this period, a fresh application for provisional registration can be made at the end of five years period.

Step 2: Start the Business
Start the business with the provisional SSI registration certificate. Commence activity or production.

Step 3: Permanent SSI Registration
Once the business commences production or activity, the business can apply for and obtain permanent SSI registration. Obtaining permanent SSI registration will help the business obtain the following benefits:

Income-Tax exemption and Sales Tax exemption as per State Government Policy
Incentives and concessions in power tariff as per State Government Policy
Price and purchase preference for goods produced
Availability of raw material depending on existing policy
Permanent SSI registration will be provided only if the following conditions are satisfied by the SSI unit: i) the unit has obtained all necessary clearances whether statutory or administrative, ii) the unit does not violate any restrictions in force, iii) value of plant and machinery is within prescribed limits and iv) the unit is not owned, controlled or subsidiary of any other industrial undertaking as per notification.