WHAT IS ENTREPRENEURSHIP

What is Entrepreneurship? Entrepreneur Definition and Meaning

Entrepreneurship is the act of creating a business or businesses while building and scaling it to generate a profit.

However, as a basic entrepreneurship definition, it’s a bit limiting. The more modern entrepreneurship definition is also about transforming the world by solving big problems. Like initiating social change, creating an innovative product or presenting a new life-changing solution.

What the entrepreneurship definition doesn’t tell you is that entrepreneurship is what people do to take their career and dreams into their hands and lead it in the direction of their own choice. It’s about building a life on your own terms. No bosses. No restricting schedules. And no one holding you back. Entrepreneurs are able to take the first step into making the world a better place, for everyone in it.


What is an Entrepreneur? Entrepreneur Definition

what is entrepreneurship

An entrepreneur is a person who sets up a business with the aim to make a profit.

This entrepreneur definition can be a bit vague but for good reason. An entrepreneur can be a person who sets up their first online store on the side or a freelancer just starting out.

The reason why they’re considered entrepreneurs, though some disagree, is because where you start out isn’t where you’ll end up. An entrepreneur is someone who starts a side hustle that can eventually create a full-time, sustainable business with employees. Same with the freelancer. If you’re focused on creating a profitable business, you fit the entrepreneur definition.  

However, the entrepreneur meaning involves much more than being a business or job creator. Entrepreneurs are some of the world’s most powerful transformers. From Elon Musk sending people to Mars to Bill Gates and Steve Jobs making computers part of every household, entrepreneurs imagine the world differently.

And the entrepreneur definition rarely ever talks about the enormous impact entrepreneurs have on the world.

Entrepreneurs see possibilities and solutions where the average person only sees annoyances and problems.

Understanding what is an entrepreneur can help more people recognize the value they contribute to the world.