TYPE'S OF ENTREPRENEURS

Top 10 Types of Entrepreneurs – Explained!

a. Trading Entrepreneur:
b. Manufacturing Entrepreneur:
c. Agricultural Entrepreneur:
d. Technical Entrepreneur:
e. Non-Technical Entrepreneur:
f. Men Entrepreneurs:
g. Women Entrepreneurs:
h. Small-Scale Entrepreneur:

Based on the Type of Business:
1. Trading Entrepreneur:
As the name itself suggests, the trading entrepreneur undertake the trading activities. They procure the finished products from the manufacturers and sell these to the customers directly or through a retailer. These serve as the middlemen as wholesalers, dealers, and retailers between the manufacturers and customers.

2. Manufacturing Entrepreneur:
The manufacturing entrepreneurs manufacture products. They identify the needs of the customers and, then, explore the resources and technology to be used to manufacture the products to satisfy the customers’ needs. In other words, the manufacturing entrepreneurs convert raw materials into finished products.

3. Agricultural Entrepreneur:
ADVERTISEMENTS:


 
The entrepreneurs who undertake agricultural pursuits are called agricultural entrepreneurs. They cover a wide spectrum of agricultural activities like cultivation, marketing of agricultural produce, irrigation, mechanization, and technology.

Based on the Use of Technology:
1. Technical Entrepreneur:
The entrepreneurs who establish and run science and technology-based industries are called ‘technical entrepreneurs.’ Speaking alternatively, these are the entrepreneurs who make use of science and technology in their enterprises. Expectedly, they use new and innovative methods of production in their enterprises.

2. Non-Technical Entrepreneur:
Based on the use of technology, the entrepreneurs who are not technical entrepreneurs are non-technical entrepreneurs. The forte of their enterprises is not science and technology. They are concerned with the use of alternative and imitative methods of marketing and distribution strategies to make their business survive and thrive in the competitive market.

Based on Ownership:
1. Private Entrepreneur:

ADVERTISEMENTS:


 
A private entrepreneur is one who as an individual sets up a business enterprise. He / she it’s the sole owner of the enterprise and bears the entire risk involved in it.

2. State Entrepreneur:

When the trading or industrial venture is undertaken by the State or the Government, it is called ‘state entrepreneur.’

3. Joint Entrepreneurs:

ADVERTISEMENTS:


 
When a private entrepreneur and the Government jointly run a business enterprise, it is called ‘joint entrepreneurs.’

Based on Gender:
1. Men Entrepreneurs:
When business enterprises are owned, managed, and controlled by men, these are called ‘men entrepreneurs.’

2. Women Entrepreneurs:
Women entrepreneurs are defined as the enterprises owned and controlled by a woman or women having a minimum financial interest of 51 per cent of the capital and giving at least 51 per cent of employment generated in the enterprises to women.

Based on the Size of Enterprise:
1. Small-Scale Entrepreneur:
An entrepreneur who has made investment in plant and machinery up to Rs 1.00 crore is called ‘small-scale entrepreneur.’

2. Medium-Scale Entrepreneur:
ADVERTISEMENTS:


 
The entrepreneur who has made investment in plant and machinery above Rs 1.00 crore but below Rs 5.00 crore is called ‘medium-scale entrepreneur.’

3. Large-Scale entrepreneur:
The entrepreneur who has made investment in plant and machinery more than Rs 5.00 crore is called ‘large-scale entrepreneur.’

Based on Clarence Danhof Classification:
Clarence Danhof (1949), on the basis of his study of the American Agriculture, classified entrepreneurs in the manner that at the initial stage of economic development, entrepreneurs have less initiative and drive and as economic development proceeds, they become more innovating and enthusiastic.