MANAGERIAL STEPS

Steps Involved in Managerial Decision-Making

Step # 1. Establishing Objectives:

Decision-making refers to choosing from alter­native courses of action or alternative ways of do­ing things. When a manager makes a decision, 
he chooses from some set of alternatives and acts on the one that he believes will best contribute to some particular end result or company objective.

Step # 2. Defining the Problem:

With objectives firmly established, the second element of a decision framework is a clear state­ment of the problem (or problems). The fact that someone in the 
organization has to make a decision simply implies that there does exist a problem, de­manding solution. In defining problems, one should be as precise as possible and should state 
the prob­lem explicitly.

Step # 3. Identification of Variables and their Relation to the Problem:
The answers to those questions constitute the third phase of the decision-making process, i.e., the explicit identification of factors that impinge on the problems that have been identified and their influences on important variables. In a broad sense, once the source or sources of the problem have been identified and clarified, management will have to identify, evaluate and compare the alter­native solutions.

In a fundamental sense, the choice among alternatives is the essence of managerial de­cision making, involving accurate assessments of the results of choosing each of the alternatives.

Step # 4. Identification of Alternatives:

The fourth phase of the decision process is to identify alternatives that represent various possi­ble courses of action. At the outset, only the most obvious of 
these will be evident. One has to be cau­tious not to stop trying to identify alternatives too quickly. The processes of enumerating possible courses of action have to be exhaustive.

Step # 5. Collection of Data:

In order to evaluate alternatives, the decision maker must have the necessary information to use the model(s). This is the fifth stage of the decision making process.

He has to gather data relating to the important variables having direct and indirect influence on the present decision problem. 
Some of these data are readily available within the firm, i.e., from records kept in the production, marketing, finance, personnel, accounting, quality control or other departments.
