GO BEYOUND BUSINESS PLANE

Plan for a Successful Business – Going Beyond a Business Plan

1. Create a road map

Yes, you still have to write a business plan. Entrepreneurship is a journey; and much like a road trip to a foreign destination requires you to have a map, so a 
successful business requires you to have a plan. This road map is where you’ll input important information about your business like:

Your business’ goals
The products of services you’ll be providing
Financial projections
How you will organize and manage your business
A market analysis

2. Dedicate a Lot of Time to Iterative Research

Modern day businesses are evolving rapidly to keep up with market needs while simultaneously exploring new niches. Whenever a new product pops up in the market, 
a dozen more similar products show up seemingly out of nowhere and in no time. In order to keep up with competitors and with the market, you need to do iterative 
research so that your business can evolve accordingly.

3. Keep the Drive Alive

Chances are that you were driven to start your business by passion or a goal you needed to achieve. Plenty of businesses have a short lifespans because their drive dies long before they evolve into anything worthwhile. You need to keep the things that led you to embark on the treacherous entrepreneurial journey alive. You can do this by:

Constantly reminding yourself of your goals.
Constantly evolving the business to suit both the customers and your passion.
Delegating work that takes too much of your time unnecessarily.


4. Know the Business Inside Out

This is perhaps the most jarring thing you need to do. When I say know the business inside out, I don’t mean that you need to understand how the dc motors that 
run the conveyor belts in the factory that manufactures your products work. Well, that would be cool but that’s not what I mean. What I mean is that you need to 
understand who your customers are, why they buy your product, how much they’re willing to pay for it, etcetera.
