WHY IS MOTIVATION REQUIRED

Why Employee Motivation Is Important

Employee motivation is a critical aspect at the workplace which leads to the performance of the department and even the company. 
Motivating your employees needs to be a regular routine.

Importance of Employee Motivation


There are several reasons why employee motivation is important. Mainly because it allows management to meet the company’s goals. Without a motivated workplace, companies could be placed in a very risky position.

Motivated employees can lead to increased productivity and allow an organisation to achieve higher levels of output. Imagine having an employee who is not motivated at work. They will probably use the time at their desk surfing the internet for personal pleasure or even looking for another job. This is a waste of your time and resources.

Note that this is based on one employee. Try picturing the majority of your employees doing the same thing. This is not a position anybody wants to be in.

1. Increased employee commitment

When employees are motivated to work, they will generally put their best effort in the tasks that are assigned to them.

2. Improved employee satisfaction

Employee satisfaction is important for every company because this can lead towards a positive growth for the company.

3. Ongoing employee development

Motivation can facilitate a worker reaching his/her personal goals, and can facilitate the self-development of an individual. Once that worker meets some initial goals, they realise the clear link between effort and results, which will further motivate them to continue at a high level.

4. Improved employee efficiency

An employee’s efficiency level is not only based on their abilities or qualifications. For the company to get the very best results, an employee needs to have a good balance between the ability to perform the task given and willingness to want to perform the task. This balance can lead to an increase of productivity and an improvement in efficiency.