ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT QUALITY

Self-confidence − Others will trust you only when you trust yourself. This is the most important trait of an entrepreneur, who should have the confidence to take one’s own decisions.

Risk-taking ability − Business is all about taking risks and experimenting. Entrepreneurs need to have a risk-taking ability.

Decision-making ability − Entrepreneurs should have the willingness and capability to take decisions in favor of the organization all the time.

Competitive − Entrepreneurs should always be ready to give and face competition.

Intelligent − Entrepreneurs always need to keep their mind active and increase their IQ and knowledge.

Visualization − Entrepreneurs should have the ability to see things from different point of views.

Patience − This is another virtue which is very important for entrepreneurship as the path to success is often very challenging and it requires a lot of patience for sustenance.

Emotional tolerance − The ability to balance professional and personal life and not mixing the two is another important trait of an entrepreneur.

Leadership quality − Entrepreneurs should be able to lead, control and motivate the mass.

Technical skill − To be in stride with the recent times, entrepreneurs should at least have a basic knowledge about the technologies that are to be used.

Managerial skill − Entrepreneurs should have the required skill to manage different people such as clients, employees, co-workers, competitors, etc.

Conflict resolution skill − Entrepreneurs should be able to resolve any type of dispute.

Organizing skill − They should be highly organized and should be able to maintain everything in a format and style.

High motivation − Entrepreneurs should have high level of motivation. They should be able to encourage everyone to give their level best.

Creative − They should be innovative and invite new creative ideas from others as well.

Reality-oriented − They should be practical and have rational thinking