MIND Vs MONEY

Is Mind more important or Money for entrepreneurship development?

The business environment is full of challenges and the whole team of the business has to face them. Here one of the important concerns is what is more important, Mind or Money. Neither of them is superior to one another. Both Mind and Money are important for an entrepreneur.

The importance of Mind and Money depends on the different situations. For instance, for the entrepreneurs who are well established, money is not that important, mind is more important for them. As well established entrepreneur is fully established and is looking for expansion of the business. Whereas money is important for the entrepreneurs who are new into the business.

The new ideas can be implemented and transformed into reality only with the help of money. And new ideas come from mind. Therefore, mind is important without which money cannot be distributed and utilized properly. The activities of the firm are affected by mind and the activities of the economy are affected by Money.

It is the mind that shows the mission and vision by creative ideas and money shows the ways to achieve the mission and vision.


What are the determinants of Entrepreneurial Success or Failure?
An entrepreneur is said to be successful when he possess a right attitude towards the trade and determination and faces the challenges in the path of success.

An entrepreneur can succeed only when he considers failure as a challenge and a growth opportunity. The failure should be considered as a prerequisite for success, a value-addition and a provider of new direction.

There are mainly two factors that determine the success of failure of an entrepreneur. They are -

 a. Internal factors
 b. External factors

Internal Factors for Success

The factors which have an impact internally and hence contribute towards the success of an organization are considered as the internal factors for success. 
Some of such internal success factors are good quality product, efficient management, good reputation, low cost production, proper financing, proper technology and time management.

External Factors for Success

The factors which have an impact externally and hence contribute towards the success of an organization are considered as the external factors for success. 
Some of such external factors are adequate availability of raw materials, quality manpower, government policy, low competition and new market.

