WHAT IS COMPANY

The definition of the term varies by country. In general, a company is same as a corporation. It is a business organization which makes goods in an organized manner 
and sells them to the public for profit. A company may hire people to be the staff of the company

Characteristics of a Company

The company has several distinct characteristics; the significant ones are discussed here:

1. Separate Legal Entity

A company is a separate legal entity from its members who constitute it. It can hold, purchase and sell properties and enter into contracts in its own name. It is an artificial legal person who can sue aid be sued. Companies are owned by shareholders and they elect the Board of Directors, who run the company. The board in turn selects the management. Thus the shareholders exercise only indirect control over the affairs of the company. The separation of ownership from the management some-times results in a conflict of interests between owners and management. The best the shareholders can do is to change some of the directors through vote in the annual general meeting subsequent to any such conflict.

2. Limited Liability

The liability of the shareholders of a company is limited to the nominal value of the shares held by them. 
In the event of liquidation the maximum loss of a shareholder is equal to the nominal value of the shares held by him. The creditors have no claim on the 
personal assets of the shareholders in the event of liquidation.

3. Ability to Acquire a Broad Capital Base

Following are significant factors that enable a company to raise large amount of capital

4. The nominal value of shares is kept small, as a result of which investment of any size is possible.

Limited liability minimize the risk of the investors and makes investment attractive and safer.

5. An Artificial Person created by Law

A company is called an artificial person because it does not take birth like a natural person but it comes into existence through the law. The company possess only those properties which are conferred upon it by its Memorandum of Association (Charter).

6. Continuous Existence

The companies generally have a continuous existence irrespective of changes in ownership. In the cases of sole proprietorship and partnership, change in ownership means the dissolution of the original business and formation of a new business.

7. Common Seal

Being an artificial person, a company can act through natural persons only. The acts of a company are authorized by the "common seal". The "common seal" is the official signature of the company. A document not bearing the common seal is not binding on the company.