PARTNERSHIP

A business partnership is a specific kind of legal relationship formed by the agreement between two or more individuals to carry on a business as co-owners. 
A partnership is a business with multiple owners, each of whom has invested in the business.

Below are basic summaries of the main types of business partnerships.

1. General Partnerships. A general partnership involves two or more owners carrying out a business purpose. ...
2. Limited Partnerships. ...
3. Limited Liability Partnerships (LLP) ...
4. Get Legal Help Before Setting Up Your Partnership.

Forming a Partnership

Partnerships are usually registered with the state in which they do business, but the requirement to register and the types of partnerships available vary from state to state. 
Partnerships use a partnership agreement to clarify the relationship between the partners, the roles and responsibilities of the partners, and their respective shares in the profits 
or losses of the partnership. 

It is relatively easy to form a partnership, but, as noted above, the business must be registered with the state where the partners do business.
Depending on the state, you may have the choice of one or more of the types of partnerships mentioned above.

Requirements for Joining a Partnership

An individual can join a partnership at the beginning or after the partnership has been operating. The incoming partner must invest in the partnership, 
bringing capital (usually money) into the business and creating a capital account. The amount of the investment and other factors, like the amount of liability 
the partner is willing to take on, determine the new partner's investment and share of the profits (and losses) of the business each year. 

The Importance of a Partnership Agreement

When a partnership is formed, one of the first acts of the partners should be to prepare and sign a partnership agreement. This agreement describes all the responsibilities of the 
partners, sets out each partner's distributive share in profits and losses, and answers all the "what if" questions about what happens in a number of typical situations. 

One good example of how a partnership agreement is important involves the situation when a partner leaves the partnership. If there is no partnership agreement to spell out 
how to handle everything, state law determines everything.

