FORMATION OF COMPANY

Company formation is the process of registering a business as a limited company at Companies House. As a result, the business becomes a distinct legal entity. 
The process is also referred to as 'company incorporation' and 'company registration

Formation of a Company: 4 Stages 

Stage # 1. Promotion Stage:

Promotion is the first stage in the formation of a company. The term ‘Promotion’ refers to the aggregate of activities designed to bring into being an enterprise to operate a business. 
It presupposes the technical processing of a commercial proposition with reference to its potential profitability. The meaning of promotion and the steps to be taken in promoting a 
business are discussed in brief here.

Promotion of a company refers to the sum total of the activities of all those who participate in the building of the enterprise upto the organisation of the company and completion of 
the plan to exploit the idea. It begins with the serious consideration given to the ideas on which the business is to be based.


Stage # 2. Incorporation or Registration Stage:

Incorporation or registration is the second stage in the formation of a company. It is the registration that brings a company into existence. 
A company is properly constituted only when it is duly registered under the Act and a Certificate of Incorporation has been obtained from the Registrar of Companies.

Stage # 3. Capital Subscription Stage:

A private company or a public company not having share capital can commence business immediately on its incorporation. As such ‘capital subscription stage’ and ‘commencement of 
business stage’ are relevant only in the case of a public company having a share capital. Such a company has to pass through these additional two stages before it can commence business.

Stage # 4. Commencement of Business Stage:

After getting the certificate of incorporation, a private company can start its business. A public company can start its business only after getting a’ certificate of commencement of business’.

