CREATIVE IN BUSINESS

THE IMPORTANCE OF CREATIVITY IN BUSINESS

Organizations today operate in a highly competitive, global environment, making creativity crucial. Creativity is what fuels big ideas, challenges employees’ way of thinking, and opens the door to new business opportunities. “Creativity” and “innovation” are often used interchangeably for that reason, but are two separate concepts.
“Innovation isn’t just one thing,” Marion says. “There are a lot of competencies that go into realizing an innovation. Creativity is different because creativity is a mechanism to being innovative. You can have great ideas, but not be innovative.”
Creativity in business is a crucial first step that needs to be prioritized by senior leadership. A survey by IBM of more than 1,500 chief executive officers shows consensus: Creativity was ranked as the number one factor for future business success—above management discipline, integrity, and even vision.
One reason for that is: Creative leaders are more comfortable with ambiguity. And as industries continue to evolve, business goals and priorities will need to change. Eight in 10 surveyed CEOs said they expect their industry to become significantly more complex. Only 49 percent, however, are confident their organizations are equipped to deal with the transformation.
“Every industry is being challenged by dynamics globally and changes in technology,” Marion says.
Several retailers, like Apple, are trying to rise to the challenge by creating “experiences.” Take Starbucks, for example. Customers visit for more than the seasonal beverages; they go for the ambiance. From the warm, welcoming interior color scheme to the alternative music and, often, neighborhood-inspired furniture or art, there’s more to the brand than what it’s selling behind the counter.
Target is another example. The chain recently announced plans for how it’s reimagining its more than 1,800 stores. One change is that shoppers will be able to “choose their own adventure” by picking from one of two store entrances. The first will lead customers to a grab-and-go food and wine and beer shop, featuring self-checkout lanes and the option to pick up any online orders. The second entrance will bring customers to the store’s other beauty, fashion, home, and electronics displays.
“Now we’re selling experiences, and those experiences need to be well-designed,” Marion says. “Creativity lends itself to that and inspires good design.”

How to Foster Creativity within Your Organization
There are several smaller steps leaders can take to make a big change on their organization. Here are five ways you can foster creativity within your own team:

1. Reward Creativity

Not every idea will be a success, but big breakthroughs won’t occur if the company plays it safe. Executives need to be comfortable with failure, and give employees the freedom and flexibility to experiment with and explore new opportunities.
Global conglomerate Tata gives out a “Dare to Try” award to employees with the “most novel, daring, and seriously attempted ideas that did not achieve the desired results,” while Google’s innovation lab, X, offers bonuses to each team member who worked on a project the company ultimately decided to kill as soon as evidence suggested it wouldn’t scale.
Companies that reward creativity show they value it, inspiring individuals within the organization to pursue untested theories and concepts.

2. Hire the Right People

The “right” people in this context aren’t solely creatives. Organizations should instead focus on diversity, bringing in a variety of viewpoints, cultural backgrounds, and skill sets. Tom Kelley, partner at global design firm IDEO, established “The Ten Faces of Innovation,” describing how each type of person—such as “The Hurdler,” who tackles problem-solving head-on, or “The Caregiver,” who works to understand and form relationships with each individual customer—adds to the overall creativeness of a project.
“Not everyone is going to be creative, but most people can learn the tools and techniques for being innovative,” Marion says. “It helps to look at things from a different vantage point.”
It is also worth considering building an innovation team within your organization, whose role is to tap into creative energies to develop new products, services, or processes within an organization.

3. Try the “Yes, And…” Approach

One method for spurring creative brainstorming is trying a technique used in improvisational theater: “Yes, and…” The approach encourages colleagues to build off their peers’ thoughts by first agreeing and then adding something to the discussion. Taking “no” off the table ensures all ideas are heard.
Employees could test this approach by simply putting a paperclip in the middle of the table and thinking up as many use cases for it as possible. The activity might sound silly, but it could help inspire creativity.