RISK PRONE AREA

Identifying and Managing Business Risks

Identifying Risks

If and when a risk becomes a reality, a well-prepared business can minimize the impact on earnings, the lost time and productivity, and the negative impact on customers. 
For startup businesses and established organizations, the ability to identify which risks pose a threat to successful operations is a key component of strategic business planning. 
Business risks are identified using various methods, but each identifying strategy relies on a comprehensive analysis of specific business activities that could present challenges 
to the company. Under most business models, organizations face preventable, strategic, and external threats that can be managed through either acceptance, transfer, reduction, or 
elimination.


Physical Risks

Building risks are the most common type of physical risk. Fire or explosions are the most common risk to a building. To manage building risk, and the risk to employees, it is important that organizations do the following:

1. Make sure all employees know the exact street address of the building to give to the 911 operator in case of emergency.
2. Make sure all employees know the location of all exits.
3. Install fire alarms and smoke detectors.
4. Install a sprinkler system to provide additional protection to the physical plant, equipment, documents, and, of course, personnel.
5. Inform all employees that in the event of emergency their personal safety takes priority over everything else. Employees should be 
   instructed to leave the building and abandon all work-associated documents, equipment, and/or products.

Hazardous material risk 

is present where spills or accidents are possible. The hazardous materials most frequently spilled or released into the atmosphere of a workplace are:

1. Gas
2. Toxic fumes
3. Toxic dust or filings
4. Poisonous liquids or waste

Location Risks

Among the location hazards facing a business are nearby fires, storm damage, floods, hurricanes or tornados, earthquakes, and other natural disasters. 
Employees should be familiar with the streets leading in and out of the neighborhood on all sides of the place of business. Individuals should keep sufficient 
fuel in their vehicles to drive out of and away from the area. Liability or property and casualty insurance are often used to transfer the financial burden of location 
risks to a third-party or a business insurance company.

Human Risks

Alcohol and drug abuse are major risks to personnel in the workforce. Employees suffering from alcohol or drug abuse should be urged to seek 
counseling, and rehabilitation, if necessary. Some insurance policies may provide partial coverage for the cost of treatment.



Technology Risks

A power outage is perhaps the most common technology risk. Auxiliary gas-driven power generators are a reliable back-up system to provide electrical energy for lighting and other functions. Manufacturing plants use several large auxiliary generators to keep a factory operational until utility power is restored.

Computers may be kept up and running with high-performance back-up batteries. Power surges may occur during a lightning storm (or randomly), so organizations should furnish critical business systems with surge-protection devices to avoid loss of documents and destruction of equipment. Establish offline and online data back-up systems to protect critical documents.

Although telephone and communications failure are relatively uncommon, risk managers may consider providing emergency-use-only company cell phones to personnel whose use of the phone or internet is critical to their business.


