TYPE OF AGRESSIVE BEHAVIOUR

What is Aggressive Behavior?

Sarah and Misha are two friends playing in the backyard. Sarah reaches over and grabs one of Misha's toys without asking, which upsets Misha. This is not the first time that 
Sarah has taken one of Misha's toys without permission, which angers Misha even more. Misha walks up to Sarah, pushes Sarah, and takes back her toy. By pushing Sarah, Misha has 
demonstrated one type of aggressive behavior.

Aggressive behavior is a type of behavior where people attempt to stand up for themselves or exert power over others in ways that are hostile and violate the rights of others. 
People who are on the receiving end of aggressive behavior, such as Sarah, usually feel dominated, embarrassed, guilty, or shamed as a result of a situation. 
Aggressive behaviors differ from passive aggressive behaviors, which seek to disguise feelings of anger in that they

4 Types of Workplace Violence

Criminal intent. “The perpetrator has no legitimate relationship to the business or its employees and is usually committing a crime in conjunction with the violence. These crimes can include robbery, shoplifting, trespassing and terrorism. The vast majority of workplace homicides (85 percent of them) fall into this category.” Sanchez told us.

Customer or client. “The perpetrator has a legitimate relationship with the business and becomes violent while being served by the business.” Sanchez explained.This category includes customers, clients, patients, students, inmates and any other group for which the business provides services. It is believed that a large portion of customer/client incidents occur in the health care industry in settings such as nursing homes or psychiatric facilities; the victims are often patient caregivers. Police officers, flight attendants and teachers are other examples of workers who may be exposed to this kind of workplace violence, which accounts for approximately 3 percent of all workplace homicides.

Worker-on-worker. The perpetrator is an employee or past employee who attacks or threatens another employee(s) or past employee(s) in the workplace. Worker-on-worker fatalities account for approximately 7 percent of all workplace homicides.

Personal relationship. The perpetrator usually does not have a relationship with the business but has a personal relationship with the intended victim. This category includes victims of domestic violence assaulted or threatened while at work and accounts for about 5 percent of all workplace homicides.