ETHICAL ISSUES IN MARKET

Each marketing concept has its own ethical issues, which we will discuss BELOW.

1. 
Emerging Ethical Problems in Market Research. ...

2.
Grouping the Market Audience. ...

3.
Ethics in Advertising and Promotion. ...

4.
Delivery Channels. ...

5.
Deceptive Marketing Policies and Ethics. ...

6.
Anti-Competitive Practices. ...

7.
Pricing Ethics.


Emerging Ethical Problems in Market Research

Market research has experienced a resurgence with the widespread use of the Internet and the popularity of social networking. It is easier than ever before for companies to connect directly with customers and collect individual information that goes into a computer database to be matched with other pieces of data collected during unrelated transactions.
The way a company conducts its market research these days can have serious ethical repercussions, affecting the lives of consumers in ways that have yet to be fully understood. Further, companies can be faced with a public backlash if their market research practices are perceived as unethical.

Grouping the Market Audience

Unethical practices in marketing can result in grouping the audience into various segments. Selective marketing may be used to discourage the demand arising from these 
so-called undesirable market segments or to disenfranchise them totally.

Ethics in Advertising and Promotion

In the early days of existence of corporations, especially during 1940s and 1950s, tobacco was advertised as a substance that promotes health. Of late, 
an advertiser who does not meet the ethical standards is considered an offender against morality by the law.

Delivery Channels

Direct marketing is one of the most controversial methods of advertising channels, especially when the approaches included are unsolicited.
Some common examples include TV and Telephonic commercials and the direct mail. Electronic spam and telemarketing also push the limits of ethical standards and legality in a 
strong manner.


Deceptive Marketing Policies and Ethics

Deceptive marketing policies are not contained in a specific limit or to one target market, and it can sometimes go unseen by the public. 
There are numerous methods of deceptive marketing. It can be presented to consumers in various forms; one of the methods is one that is accomplished via the use of humor. 
Humor offers an escape or relief from various types of human constraints, and some advertisers may take the advantage of this by applying deceptive advertising methods 
for a product that can potentially harm or alleviate the constraints using humor.

Anti-Competitive Practices

There are various methods that are anti-competitive. For example, bait and switch is a type of fraud where customers are "baited" through the advertisements 
for some products or services that have a low price; however, the customers find in reality that the advertised good is unavailable and they are "switched" 
towards a product that is costlier and was not intended in the advertisements.

Pricing Ethics

There are various forms of unethical business practices related to pricing the products and services.
Bid rigging is a type of fraud in which a commercial contract is promised to one party, however, for the sake of appearance several other parties also present a bid.



























