REWARDING GROUP SUCCESS

8 Great Ways to Celebrate Your Group Sucess

1. Say thank you.

Everyone underestimates the power of a simple thank you. It doesn’t matter who it is, your team member will appreciate you taking the time to recognize their efforts,
 even if it is in a small way.

2. Ferris Bueller’s Day Off

Sometimes, the team deserves a day off. Our company hosts an annual Ferris Bueller’s day off to reward our team.
  Together, we meet in Toronto to watch a Blue Jay’s game and socialize outside of the office.

3. Plan an office birthday party

Cake, balloons and a song. That’s it. Not only will this be a celebration for the birthday guy or gal, but also a fun time for the rest of the office.
 This is a great opportunity to show your team that you care.

4. Trophy for the win

Just like the excitement of winning the soccer MVP award, employees like to win too. Hand out the office trophy every Friday, celebrating someone new each week.
 This will be a fun little Friday activity and encourage everyone to support one another’s achievements.

5. Invest in their success

Offer high-performing employees the opportunity to complete an educational program or attend a conference.
Not only will this be an investment in the individual, but also towards your business.

6. Email blasts

Send an email blast to the team recognizing the exceptional work of one or more individuals.
This is always a great way to shine a light on the outstanding work happening within your team. However, make sure that you are not continually celebrating the same person—spread the love.

7. Lunch on the boss

Take the team out to lunch once every few months to appreciate their dedication. 
If you want to add an element of fun, create a wheel and have an employee spin to randomly choose the restaurant.

8. Coffee Dates

Take half an hour to sit down with an employee for coffee. Talk about anything but business. When you take the time to get to know your employees,
 their life and their families, it shows that you care about them as people.