The importance of Human Resource Management
Find out how human resource management plays a pivotal role in an organisation’s success.

According to statistics released by SilkRoad, 53% of HR professionals believe that employee engagement increases when the onboarding process is better.
CultureIQ released statistics stating that 73% of employers believe that a healthy corporate culture gives their firm a competitive edge.
According to a survey conducted by SHRM, 89% of HR leaders confirmed that ongoing peer feedback has a positive influence on the organisation.

"HR management helps bridge the gap between employees’ performance and the organisation’s strategic objectives."

What is human resource management (HRM)?

HRM can be defined as the effective management of people in an organisation. HR management helps bridge the gap between employees’ performance and the organisation’s strategic objectives. Moreover, an efficient HR management team can give firms an edge over their competition.

Role of HR managers

Recruitment: One of the major responsibilities of a HR manager is to recruit personnel. The success of an organisation largely depends on the workforce employed, so it is essential that the right people are hired for the right role.
Learning and development: Learning is a continuous process and essential to enhance employees’ productivity. HR managers are responsible for the orientation and induction of new employees, as well as the professional development of existing employees. They are responsible for strategising development programmes. Furthermore, they must have the ability to identify and analyse the areas that employees need training for.
Building employee relations: Effective employee relations go a long way in boosting productivity and contributes significantly to an organisation’s success. Employee relations strategies are implemented to ensure that an organisation caters to the overall well-being of employees.
Compensation and benefits: A major component of a HR manager’s job role is handling compensation and benefits. They are responsible for devising compensation strategies, performance management systems and compensation structures, as well as negotiating pay and benefit packages with potential employees.
Importance of HR managers in organisations

Strategy management: This is an important aspect of any organisation and plays a vital role in human resource management. HR managers manage strategies to ensure the organisation reaches its business goals, as well as contributing significantly to the corporate decision-making process, which includes assessments for current employees and predictions for future ones based on business demands.
Benefits analysis: HR managers work towards reducing costs, such as with recruitment and retention. HR professionals are trained to conduct efficient negotiations with potential and existing employees, as well as being well-versed with employee benefits that are likely to attract quality candidates and retaining the existing workforce.
Training and development: Since HR managers contribute significantly to training and development programmes, they also play a pivotal role in strengthening employer-employee relationships. This contributes to the growth of employees within the company, hence enhancing employee satisfaction and productivity.
Interactivity within employees: HR managers are responsible for conducting activities, events and celebrations in the organisation which gives way to team building opportunities. Moreover, it enhances interactivity within employees and instils a sense of trust and respect among peers.
Conflict management: The department to go to when any kind of professional conflict arises between employees is HR. They ensure that issues and conflicts are resolved effectively, approaching the problem with an unbiased attitude and encouraging effective communication to reach a solution. In addition, they help employees understand various ways of developing effective work relationships and the importance of not letting personal judgement affect their behaviour.
Establishing a healthy work culture: A healthy work culture is pivotal in bringing out the best in employees. HR managers contribute significantly in setting up a healthy and friendly work culture, which further translates into better productivity among employees.
Compliance: HR professionals work towards making the organisation compliant with employment laws, as well as maintaining records of hiring processes and applicants’ log.
Courses in human resource management

If you pursue a master’s degree in human resource management, you will acquire sound knowledge regarding:

Business skills;
Management and leadership development;
Mentoring and coaching;
Managing employee relations;
Professional development;
Organisational design and development.
HR professionals show exemplary leadership skills and enhance the credibility of an organisation. The human resource management process ensures that the organisation leads by example and the firm’s actions fall in line with its vision. If you would like to know more about how HR management adds value to an organisation, you can watch the video below for further insight.


HR management is becoming an increasingly popular career choice, leading to more and more people opting for HR management courses. In fact, it could be one of the best business courses to take in 2019.

GISMA Business School, known for its high-quality education and multicultural environment, offers the MSc Leadership and Human Resource Management, awarded by The University of Law.

If you are interested in this field and want to pursue it with an international institution, GISMA Business School is the place for you. You can find out more about the programmes and enquire here.



