11 Successful Small Business Ideas For Women

1) FASHION DESIGNING
Businesses centred around clothes and jewellery has always been a favourite for women in India. Do you love to design your clothes? If yes, start your fashion business and get paid handsomely by helping your clients turn into fashionistas.

Fashion designing is one of the most money-making small business ideas for women that requires very little investment. Set up a small neat corner of your home as a working studio and start by dressing up your friends and neighbours. Get inspired by the success stories of women turned into successful fashion designers and build your own brand.



2) DAY CARE SERVICES
The trend for opening daycare and crèche is surely catching on as one of the small business ideas for women. Working mothers are always in the hunt for daycare facilities for their children that makes gives a home-like feel. With a small space in their home, women can easily start this business.

Deck up the area with toys that your children have outgrown and turned it easily into a playful zone for toddlers. An eye for details and love for children (women are simply blessed with these instincts) is all that you need to turn this small business idea for women into a successful one.

small business ideas for women - 2







3) IMAGE CONSULTANTS
While some women have the flair to present themselves in certain aesthetics, others may not be alike. So how about an idea of helping such women and making good earnings from the same. This is where the role an image consultant comes in. Your job is to help other women in shopping and get a complete wardrobe makeover. Pass on handy tips for dressing up according to their body type and taste and current trends.

This business idea is particularly suitable for women with good fashion sense and also requires some knowledge of current trends in the fashion world. An image consultant is another tested small business ideas for women that requires no investment at all.



4) BAKERY BUSINESS
The demand for cakes and bakery products are on a rise. Bakery business can easily be started from home if you simply love experimenting with delicious batters. A little expertise and small investment in equipment are all that you need to get your business rolling.

Start by making cakes, cupcakes and bread initially. Promote yourself on social media platforms like Instagram and Facebook and ask friends and families for recommendations.

small business ideas for women - 4



Articles you may like:

11 affordable coworking spaces in Delhi under 5K budget
9 best coworking spaces in Bangalore for individuals & teams
How to start a startup in India – Idea to execution
10 things that you must prepare for before becoming an entrepreneur


5) EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES FOR KIDS
No, we are not talking about regular tuition classes for kids. The new generation of parents (the millennials) are working and do not get time to do some form of activities with their children. They are always on a lookout for extracurricular activities for their kids, that is beyond the school curriculum, like storytelling, DIY crafts, creative writing and spiritual classes.

Most of the women have innate abilities when it comes to managing children. There is no formal training required to start such classes, your passion is the only driving force here. The classes can easily be started from homes and even the working hours are also very flexible. Advertise your work by letting friends and family know about the great job you are doing.

small business ideas for women - 5



6) EVENT PLANNER
Celebrations are getting grandeur by the day. Be it a birthday party, baby showers, farewell parties, weddings or corporate events, people love to splurge on every occasion, without being bothered by the hassles. Here comes the role of an event planner. If you love organizing events at your home front, this profession is ideal to get started.

As an event planner, you need to be resourceful and have the right contacts to get things organized in a budget. Let your acquaintances know of your new endeavour and by simply giving your best, this business idea will surely take you places.

small business ideas for women - 6



Startup Handbook: Build A Business From Scratch
Get instant access to this ebook on building a business from scratch worth $19 absolutely FREE!
Your Email


7) PHOTOGRAPHY
Photography is one of those professions that is simply driven by passion. If you have a flair for photography you can easily make your mark here. With the advancement in digital photography technology, even amateurs can take click professional photographs with ease. A good profile on social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram is all that you need to get you noticed.

The initial investment in the photography business is just the equipment cost. Photography turns out to be one of the easiest and equally profitable small business ideas for women today.

small business ideas for women - 7



8) SELLING PRODUCTS ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS
Thanks to e-commerce, selling and buying products can be done right within the comforts of your home. Gone are the days when you needed to step out of your home to get your errands done. With technology, everything is just at your fingertips.

Selling products online on platforms like Amazon and Flipkart is another lucrative small business ideas for women. Online e-commerce sites like Etsy enable women to make earnings by displaying their creativity. You can easily get vendors for handcrafted products like soaps, candle and homemade artefacts. Just display your creativity and get paid easily for your labour. Simple as that!

small business ideas for women - 8



Articles you may like:

How to find investors in India for your next big fundraising
11 best leadership books for every entrepreneur & aspiring leader
The toughest decision for startups: to get funded or be bootstrapped


9) COOKING
Being doting mothers, Indian women turn out to be exceptionally good at cooking. Their love for cooking healthy and delicious food for their children and family helps them to hone their cooking skills unconditionally. Simple experiments with food can help you curate new recipes.

Cooking is one of the small business ideas for women that requires negligible investment. Start with cooking classes in your community and make yourself noticed by sharing recipes and pictures of your food presentations on Insta. You can easily build your business enterprise by starting delivery service right from your kitchen.

small business ideas for women - 9



10) URBAN LANDSCAPE ARTIST
Sounds interesting, right? An urban landscape artist is a professional who turns your home green by installing beautiful planters all around. It’s more like gardening – with a professional twist. It is immensely disturbing that urbanization has shrunk the greenery around to almost negligible.

You only need to have exceptional knowledge of organic gardening, natural pesticides and organic products. There is a great demand for professional gardeners in cities like Mumbai and Bangalore, making it a profitable business idea for women in India.

small business ideas for women - 10



11) FREELANCE WRITING
The rise in e-commerce business has escalated the demand for content writers. Businesses are looking for professional writers to create impactful content about their business that gives them an upper hand over their competitors. Freelance writing is the most lucrative small business ideas for women in India as there is zero investment cost and does not bound you to work in fixed office hours.

You can start working right from the comforts of your home. An ability to aesthetically pen your thoughts can make you a good freelance writer and easily pitch clients for yourself. Your pay-per-word can range from INR 1 to INR 5 depending on your expertise and niche.

small business ideas for women - 11



The shift from 9 to 5 jobs to flexible working has been phenomenal – yet there are so many myths. Freelancing does not mean you need to work only from your home. You do not always need to make a lump sum investment for your privately owned office. Platforms like myHQ are coming up with the concept of shared office spaces. Freelancers can now co-exist by sharing the expenses. They get to network with people beyond their professional domain.

At myHQ, they are turning cafes and pubs into comfortable working zone. These new-era working zones turn out to be extremely economical with their flexible membership plans. Explore working in a completely new fashion by booking a free trial at one of the myHQ workspaces.

For women entrepreneurs in India, starting their own business is not just about being financially independent, it’s a passion. It’s like living your dream. Choose from any of these innovative and feasible small business ideas that you love. Every milestone that you cross here will definitely make your smile broader!

